COUNCIL MEMBER I
DID SEE YOU JOINED EARLIER.
>> GOOD TO SEE YOU.
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
SO YEAH, I WANTED TO JUST KIND
OF GO THROUGH THE AGENDA HERE.
>> NOW WE ARE AT THE ROLL CALL.
>> KENNEDY WILL CALL YOUR NAME.
SO WHEN SHE DOES CALL YOUR NAME
PLEASE UNMUTED STATE YOUR NAME
AND WHERE YOU ARE COMING FROM
TODAY.
THANK YOU KENNEDY
.
>> SORRY ABOUT THAT GUYS.
I GUESS I WAS TELLING YOU ONE
MORE TIME TO DAMON.
>> YES.
THIS IS DAMON, CHAIRMAN OF THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES.
I'M COMING TO YOU TODAY FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN WASHTENAW
COUNTY GROUP VICE CHAIR KEILLER
VICE CHAIR TAYLOR, I'M COMING
TO YOU FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN
IN THE COMFORT OF MY COUCH.
THANK YOU, MR. BOZAK.
YES.
GOOD AFTERNOON, EVERYONE.
I'M COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN MUSAC
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON.
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS,
COMMISSIONER POLSTER.
>> HELLO, I'M DEBBIE STURR AND
I'M CALLING FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
YOU COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYBODY.
COMMISSIONER CALLING IN FOR OUR
MICHIGAN COMMISSIONER TRACKLIST
AFTERNOON.
HAPPY WEDNESDAY.
THIS IS COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> COMMISSIONER PACKARD AND MR.
PACKARD COMING TO YOU FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN ABOUT THE 10
MINUTE APPOINTMENT I WILL HAVE
TO GET TO AT SOME POINT DURING
THE MEETING BUT I WILL BE HERE
THROUGHOUT.
OTHERWISE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER CHAMBERS ELENA
CHAMBERS AND FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN YOU COMMISSIONER BEWES
HIGH COMMISSIONER AL-ARABIA WAS
CALLING FROM ANN ARBOR AND
COMMISSIONER I'M PROBABLY GOING
TO PRONOUNCE THIS WARREN
ACRONYM BA AKIMA YEAH.
>> SAM COME OVER HERE.
YOU CAN SAY ABOUT GEBAUER OK,
I'M GET IT RIGHT ONE OF THESE
DAYS SAM SO COMMISSIONER ANK IN
ONE YEAH.
>> SAMMY COME OUT HERE COMING
FROM DOWNTOWN ANN THANK YOU.
CAN'T REMEMBER GODSE AT ONE
EVERYONE COUNCIL MEMBER GOZI
EDWYN CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR.
>> RIGHT.
WE HAVE A CALL.
THANK YOU KENNEDY WE HAVE A
QUORUM.
WELCOME EVERYBODY.
HOPE EVERYBODY BRAVING THE
WEATHER HERE.
APRIL SHOWERS DO INDEED BRING
ME FLOWERS AND GLAD TO SEE THAT
WE'VE GOT WE GOT THROUGH THAT
LITTLE DOWNPOUR HERE NEXT.
I WANTED TO SEE IF THERE WAS
ANYONE ON FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
PLEASE KNOW PUBLICLY THAT IF
YOU DO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
PUBLIC COMMENT YOU DO HAVE
THREE MINUTES AND PLEASE FEEL
FREE TO CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN OR EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO
NINE NINE AND THEN YOU CAN
ENTER MEETING AND NINE ONE NINE
EIGHT SIX SEVEN THREE ONE FOUR
FIVE FIVE KENNEDY DO WE HAVE
ANYONE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AT
THIS TIME?
I DO NOT SEE ANYONE ON THE CALL
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE HERE AT THIS
TIME HERE TO MAKE A PUBLIC
COMMENT?
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND SAYING
NOT NO PUBLIC OK, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
OF TODAY'S MEETING AGENDA
.
I DID WANT TO PROPOSE JUST ONE
QUICK ADJUSTMENT TO TODAY'S
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER WILL HAVE
TO JUMP TO A TOWN HALL MEETING
IF THAT'S CORRECT LATER TODAY.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE HER UP
IN THE AGENDA TODAY IF WE CAN
TO MOVE HER TO AFTER THE PARKS
ADA TRANSPORTATION PLAN
PRESENTATION SO THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER MAY GIVE HER UPDATE
BEFORE SHE DEPARTS THE MEETING
.
IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON THAT
OR IS THERE A MOTION TO ADJUST
TODAY'S AGENDA?
I WOULD MOVE TO OK, I'M GOING
TO SECOND THE AGENDA WITH THE
UPDATE THAT YOU JUST TALKED
ABOUT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NOTHING SO ALL RIGHT, LARRY.
STILL TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
WITH THE MOVE COUNCIL MEMBER
EDWIN GIVING HER REPORT AFTER
THE PARKS AND RECREATION REPORT
LARRY.
SECONDS THAT AGENDA ADJUSTMENT
ALL IN FAVOR OF THE AGENDA WITH
THE UPDATED ITEM PLEASE ON MUTE
AND SAY I I I I GREAT.
THANK YOU.
SO JUST TO BE CLEAR, COUNCIL
MEMBER, ANYONE WILL GIVE THEIR
REPORT AFTER PARKS AND
RECREATION DOES THEIR
PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALL.
REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
OF THE MEETING MINUTES FROM
MARCH TWENTY THAT HAS BEEN SENT
IN THE AGENDA AND THERE IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO VIEW THAT NOW I
DIDN'T KNOW IF ANYBODY HAD ANY
EDITS OR AMENDMENTS TO THOSE
MINUTES REMARKS OR IS THERE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THOSE MINUTES
AT THIS TIME AT OK, I'D LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM MARCH
TWENTY.
>> IS THERE A SECOND I SECOND
OK OK COMMISSIONER POST YOUR
SECONDS.
I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVING
THE MEETING MINUTES FROM MARCH
TWENTY PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I
OK OK.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH EVERYONE.
THE THE MEETING MINUTES FROM
MARCH HAD BEEN APPROVED.
NEXT WE'RE MOVING TO OUR
SPECIAL PRESENTATION PORTION
OF TODAY'S MEETING AND SO I'M
VERY EXCITED TO WELCOME THE
CITY OF VANOVER PARKS
DEPARTMENT.
THEY ARE GOING TO BE PRESENTING
THE A.D.A TRANSITION PLAN THAT
THEY'VE WORKED VERY, VERY HARD
FOR AND WE ARE VERY EXCITED
THAT THEY WILL BE PRESENTING
TODAY.
PLEASE NOTE THAT THE
PRESENTATION WAS SENT TO THE
COMMISSION FOR US TO TO ALL
REVIEW AND HAVE THAT.
BUT AT THIS POINT I WOULD LIKE
TO GIVE THE FLOOR TO THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR PARKS DEPARTMENT.
>> WELCOME.
THANK YOU, ZACK.
THANK YOU EVERYONE FOR HAVING
US HERE TODAY.
MY NAME IS ADAM FRICO.
I AM THE PARK PLANNER, THE FOR
THE PARKS DEPARTMENT ONE OF THE
TWO AND I WAS THE PROJECT
MANAGER FOR THIS WITH ME I ALSO
HAVE JOSH LANDEFELD WHO IS OUR
PARKS MANAGER.
I HAVE SARAH STEWART WHO IS ONE
OF OUR RECREATION SUPERVISORS
AND SHE'S OUR NEW PARKS ADA
LIAISON.
SO SHE'LL BE THE POINT
OF CONTACT FOR ADA
ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES FOR PARKS
AND I ALSO HAVE JAYSUS, FLORIDA
ZABOL.
HE'S FROM ALTURA SOLUTIONS AND
THEY WERE OUR CONSULTANTS
HELPING US THROUGH THIS
PROCESS.
SO WHAT AM I TO DO IS JUST A
QUICK OVERVIEW OF HOW WE GOT
HERE AND THEN I'M GOING TO HAND
IT OVER TO HATZIUS TO KIND
OF RUN THROUGH THE TRANSITION
PLAN AND WHAT WE LEARNED AND
THEN AFTER THAT WELL WE CAN
HAVE SOME QUESTION AND ANSWERS
AND WE'LL DO OUR BEST TO HELP
OUT.
SO I'VE BEEN IN FRONT YOU A FEW
TIMES NOW.
>> EXCUSE ME, ADAM, DO YOU MIND
SHARING YOUR SCREEN THE
PRESENTATION?
>> I DO NOT SEE IT THANK GOD
HAD AZOUZ HAS THAT SO CHEWEY DO
YOU WANT TO SHARE THAT?
>> I DON'T SEE WHERE I CAN
SHARE IT.
I DON'T SEE THE OPTION FOR
SHARING.
OH THERE IT IS.
I'M SORRY I'LL GO AHEAD AND GET
IT STARTED.
>> THANK YOU.
SO MY PRESENTATION OR WHAT I'M
TALKING ABOUT WILL BE BEFORE
THE PRESENTATION BUT WE'LL HAVE
THIS UP THERE SO EVERYONE CAN
SEE.
YEAH SO I'VE BEEN HERE A FEW
TIMES NOW IN FRONT OF YOU IF
YOU RECALL BACK IN MAY
OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO IS WHEN WE
STARTED DOWN THIS PATH AND OUR
TRANSITION PLAN AT THAT POINT
WAS TO DO A STUDY
OF ACCESSIBILITY AND ADA AND
TWENTY OF OUR PARKS AND
FACILITIES AFTER TALKING WITH
WITH THIS GROUP AND AROUND WE
EXPANDED THAT TO COVER ALL
OF OUR PARKS AND FACILITIES
WITHIN THE PARKS DEPARTMENT SO
OUR TRANSITION PLAN WILL
COVER ALL OF THAT.
WE EXPANDED ITS PROGRAMS AND
SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES WHICH
PACER'S WE'LL TALK ABOUT COMING
UP.
SO ASK EXPANDED SIGNIFICANTLY
AS WE WENT INTO THIS WE HELD
THREE DIFFERENT COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT EFFORTS INCLUDING A
SURVEY, WEBINAR AND PERSON
MEETING.
WE'VE HAD DRAFT PLANS THAT
WE'VE REVIEWED GONE OVER WITH
OUR TEAM AND DIFFERENT PEOPLE
IN THE CITY.
>> WE WENT WE ARE AT A POINT
WHERE WE HAVE OUR FINAL A.D.A
TRANSITION PLAN NOW WE WENT TO
OUR PARKS ADVISORY COMMISSION
LAST MONTH WHERE THEY
RECOMMENDED APPROVAL TO CITY
COUNCIL.
WE ARE HERE IN FRONT OF YOU
TODAY TO SHARE WHAT WE FOUND
AND THEN WE WILL BE GOING TO
CITY COUNCIL RIGHT NOW WE'RE ON
THE MAY 20TH AGENDA SO WE WILL
BE PRESENTING THERE AND SEEKING
TO PASS A RESOLUTION FOR THIS
A.D.A TRANSITION PLAN EVEN
THOUGH IT'S NOT PAST THAT WE'VE
LEARNED A GREAT DEAL AND WE'VE
ALREADY USED OUR TRANSITION
PLAN AND SEVERAL PROJECTS KNOW
SOME OF THEM RANGING FROM THE
AAGOT UNIVERSAL ACCESS DESIGN
THAT WE DID WITH OUR WITH OUR
RESTROOMS AND AT THE LIVERY
I'VE BEEN USING IT FOR OUR NEW
BICENTENNIAL PARK WHICH WAS
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK.
SO WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO KIND
OF PICK UP ALL OF OUR
ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES THERE.
WE'VE TRACY BYRD WAS HIRED AS
OUR ACCESSIBILITY COORDINATOR
FROM THE CITY THAT REALLY
STEMMED FROM THIS PLAN AND THEN
SARAH'S ROLE SARAH STEWART AS
OUR ADA LIAISON FOR PARKS.
THESE ARE ALL THINGS I'VE
ALREADY KIND OF COME OUT
OF THIS PLAN AND WE'RE REALLY
EXCITED TO SEE WHERE THIS GOES
AS IT HELPS US KIND OF IT GIVES
US DIRECTION MOVING FORWARD FOR
A LOT OF OUR PROJECTS.
WE ALSO JUST PUBLISHED ON OUR
WEBSITE ON THE PARKS AND
RECREATION WEBSITE THERE IS AN
EXTENSIVE LETY PAGE WHERE IN
THERE YOU'LL FIND ALL OF THE
APPENDICES AND THE REPORT
ITSELF WHICH ARE THERE.
IT'S QUITE LARGE AND EXTENSIVE
SO I WOULD ENCOURAGE EVERYONE
TO TAKE A LOOK AT ALL OF THAT
INFORMATION.
IT'S REALLY NICE BUT WE HAVE
THAT OUT THERE FOR THE PUBLIC
SO EVERYONE CAN SEE IT.
SO WITH THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
HAND IT OFF TO HAZINESS FOR HIS
PRESENTATION ON OUR TRANSITION
PLAN.
>> THANK YOU.
AND I'LL BE COVERING AND A
LITTLE BIT MORE DETAIL A LOT
OF WHAT ADAM MENTIONED.
BUT YOU KNOW, I'LL COVER SOME
OF THE SAME GROUND AND ADD SOME
DETAIL AS WE GO.
SO JUST A QUICK OVERVIEW OF THE
PROJECT OR PRESENTATION.
WE WILL BE TALKING ABOUT WHAT
AN EIGHT DAY TRANSITION PLAN
IS.
I KNOW I MIGHT BE PREACHING TO
THE CHOIR BUT WE'LL GO OVER IT.
WE'LL WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE
PROCESS THAT WE WENT THROUGH TO
PERFORM THE SELF EVALUATION,
THE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AND HOW
WE CAME TO DEVELOP THE THE
FINAL DOCUMENT AND THEN THE
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
AND FINALLY WE'LL TALK ABOUT
WHAT THE PARKS DEPARTMENT IS
DOING NOW TO IMPLEMENT THE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
TRANSITION PLAN.
SO AS A BACKGROUND FOR THE
TRANSITION PLAN, TITLE TWO
OF THE ADA SAYS THAT GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES SUCH AS THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR MUST CONDUCT A
SELF EVALUATION OF BOTH
FACILITIES AND PROGRAMS,
SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES AT THE
ADA ALSO WANTS THE GOVERNMENT
ENTITY TO GATHER PUBLIC INPUT
TO OUTLINE THE METHODS TO
REMOVE ANY BARRIERS THAT ARE
IDENTIFIED AND DEVELOP A
SCHEDULE TO ACHIEVE COMPLIANCE
AND THEN DESIGNATE A PERSON
RESPONSIBLE FOR IMPLEMENTATION
.
THAT'S JUST BIG PICTURE OF WHAT
AN ADA TRANSITION PLAN IS.
BUT IN ESSENCE IT'S A SNAPSHOT
IN TIME OF THE THE PARTS
DEPARTMENTS INFRASTRUCTURE AND
THEN WE BASICALLY CREATE A
DOCUMENT THAT HELPS THE PARKS
DEPARTMENT TRANSITION FROM
WHERE THEY CURRENTLY ARE INTO
PROGRAM ACCESSIBILITY WITHIN
THE ADA.
SO THE SELF EVALUATION PROCESS
WE LOOKED AT FACILITIES AND OUR
OUR EFFORT WAS TO IDENTIFY
BARRIERS SO WE ONLY CAPTURED
BARRIERS THAT WE SAW.
WE ASSESSED ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY FACILITIES, ALL TYPES
OF PARKS OR ALL TYPES
OF FACILITIES THAT ARE OWNED BY
THE PARKS DEPARTMENT.
WE COLLECTED DATA USING A
DIGITAL APPLICATION WHICH I'LL
SHOW YOU HERE IN A MINUTE.
WE IDENTIFIED BARRIERS.
THESE BARRIERS ARE IDENTIFIED
WITHIN OUR GIALLO SO YOU CAN
FIND THEM ON A MAP AND THERE
ARE PHOTOS FOR EACH
NON-COMPLIANT BARRIER THAT WE
FOUND.
SO HERE IS A QUICK SHOWING
OF THE APPLICATION THAT WE USED
AND THIS IS JUST A SAMPLE FROM
ANOTHER PROJECT.
BUT WE WOULD GO OUT AND AS SOON
AS WE FOUND A BARRIER WE WOULD
TAKE AN IMAGE AND IT WOULD TELL
US WHERE IT WAS IN THE LOBBY.
THE MAIN LOBBY WE WOULD GEO
LOCATE IT SO IT WOULD TELL US
WHERE THIS BARRIER IS FOUND.
THEN WE DO A PULL DOWN MENU AND
WE WOULD LOOK FOR THE ELEMENT
IN THIS CASE DOORS.
THEN WE FIND THE NEXT ELEMENT
IN THIS CASE IT'S HARDWARE AND
SINCE IT'S A DOOR KNOB IT IS
NOT COMPLIANT.
WE WOULD THEN AUTO POPULATE
WHAT THE THE FINDING IS AND
THEN WE WOULD PUT IT IN A
COMMENTARY LIKE IT'S ONE IT
REQUIRES TWISTING AND PINCHING
.
IT IS NOT COMPLIANT.
SO WE ADDED IN SOME COMMENTS
THE SOFTWARE AUTO POPULATES
VARIOUS FIELDS AND STANDARDS
AND THEN THAT SAID WE HAVE A
DATA POINT AND SO WE WENT
AROUND THE FACILITIES AND
CAPTURED I WOULD SAY THOUSANDS
OF DATA POINTS ACROSS ALL THE
THE FACILITIES THAT WE REVIEWED
.
THEN WE ALSO LOOKED AT THE
DEPARTMENT'S PROGRAM SERVES AND
ACTIVITIES OR WE REFERRED TO AS
AND A GSA IS BASICALLY ANYTHING
THAT THE DEPARTMENT PROVIDES
FROM RENTAL OF FACILITIES TO
RUNNING OF SPORTS LEAGUES.
THOSE ARE ALL WE INTERVIEWED
STAFF TO GET A FEEL FOR THE
PIECES THAT ARE OFFERED AND WE
LOOKED AT ALL 13 DIVISIONS
WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT.
WE ALSO DEVELOP A CHECKLIST FOR
STAFF TO USE SO THAT AS AS WE
MOVE FORWARD AND THE CITY ADDS
OR DELETES PSA, THEY CAN RUN
THIS ANALYSIS ON THEIR OWN AS
PART OF THE PROJECT WE DID
PUBLIC INPUT AS ADAM MENTIONED.
WE HOSTED VARIOUS VIRTUAL AND
PUBLIC AND IN-PERSON PUBLIC
MEETINGS.
AS YOU CAN SEE HERE WE DID
VIRTUAL AND PERSON AND IT BOTH
WE COLLECTED DATA FROM A SURVEY
AND WE ALSO POSTED THE SURVEY
ONLINE WHICH PEOPLE COULD GO
AND FILL OUT THE INFORMATION.
WE THEN TOOK THAT INPUT AND
HELPED CREATE PRIORITIES.
SO WITH THAT INPUT AND HELP IT
FACTORED INTO PRIORITIZED
PRIORITIZATION OF FACILITIES
AND ELEMENTS WITHIN FACILITIES
.
SO THE ACTUAL TRANSITION PLAN
THAT WE DEVELOPED WE WE
PRODUCED SEVERAL DRAFTS WHICH
WE WOULD SHOW THE CITY AND THE
CITY WOULD THEN COMMENT ON
THOSE DRAFTS AND AND NONE
OF THE FINDINGS BUT ON OUR
RECOMMENDATIONS THE TRANSITION
PLAN NOW THAT IT'S COMPLETE
MEETS A.D.A TITLE TO
REQUIREMENTS WE BELIEVE THAT
ENHANCES THE EXISTING PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES.
IT CREATES ACCESSIBILITY AND
FACILITATES INCLUSION.
IT ALSO COMPLEMENTS OTHER
DEPARTMENTAL FACILITIES SUCH AS
THE A TWO PRONGED PLAN WHICH
LOOKS AT OVERALL HOW THE
DEPARTMENT USES ITS
INFRASTRUCTURE AND WE BELIEVE
IT'S A BENEFIT TO THE COMMUNITY
AND CAN BE USED AND IMPLEMENTED
MOVING FORWARD.
SO STAFF TRAINING AS PART
OF OUR SCOPE WE PROVIDED
TRAINING TO STAFF AND WE WERE
DELIGHTED THAT THE DEPARTMENT
BASICALLY MADE IT MANDATORY FOR
ALL DEPARTMENTAL STAFF TO
ATTEND.
WE SOMETIMES WORK WITH CITIES
WHERE WE JUST GET CERTAIN
PEOPLE TO ATTEND BUT HERE
EVERYBODY ATTENDED AND SOME
OF THE TOPICS THAT WE DISCUSSED
ARE ARE SHOWN HERE.
WE HAD GREAT DIALOG AS WE
PROVIDED THIS TRAINING.
WHAT WE FIND IS THAT SOMETIMES
THERE'S MISCONCEPTIONS OR JUST
A PERSPECTIVE THAT WE NEED TO
TWEAK AND BUT WE WERE VERY
PLEASANTLY SURPRISED THAT STAFF
WAS VERY OPEN TO THE TRAINING
AND TO THESE DISCUSSIONS THAT
WE HAD ABOUT ACCESSIBILITY.
SO FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
WE PRODUCED REPORTS OF FINDINGS
FOR EACH FACILITY AND AS ADAM
MENTIONED, IT'S CONTAINED
WITHIN THE REPORT.
THE FINDINGS ARE AGAIN A
SNAPSHOT OF COMPLIANCE WHERE WE
STOOD AT THE TIME THAT WE WERE
THERE AND ALREADY THINGS ARE
CHANGING AS PROJECTS MOVE
FORWARD AND AND THINGS ARE
ALTERED.
IT'S ALREADY MOVING FORWARD
TOWARDS ACCESSIBILITY AND THESE
REPORTS CAN BE USED FOR FUTURE
PLANNING FOR FUTURE PROJECT AND
FOR GRANT APPLICATIONS.
ADAM MENTIONED SOME OF THESE
REPORTS ARE ALREADY PLAYING A
ROLE AS PROJECTS ARE BEING
DESIGNED AND CAN BE USED ALMOST
AS A CHECKLIST IF YOU'RE GOING
TO BE AT THIS FACILITY DOING
THESE THINGS.
HERE'S A LIST OF THINGS THAT
YOU CAN DO TO ADDRESS
ACCESSIBILITY AS WELL.
SOME SOME OF THE
RECOMMENDATIONS WAS TO APPOINT
AN ADA COORDINATOR WHICH AS
ADAM MENTIONED HAS HAS BEEN
DONE AND THIS WAS DONE AT THE
CITY LEVEL NOT JUST AT A
DEPARTMENTAL LEVEL, ALTHOUGH
THE DEPARTMENT ALSO APPOINTED
LEAD LIAISON AS WAS MENTIONED,
SARAH AND WE HAVE ALSO
PARTICIPATE IN TRAINING WITH
BOTH THE CITYWIDE AND
DEPARTMENTAL AND ADA
COORDINATORS AND HAVE HAVE ONE
MORE TRAINING SESSION TO GO AND
TO COMPLETE THAT.
BUT WE FEEL THAT YOU HAVE GREAT
CANDIDATES OR GREAT PEOPLE IN
THE POSITIONS AND OUR ARE UP TO
SPEED ON THE STANDARDS AND ARE
VERY PASSIONATE ABOUT WHAT THEY
DO.
SO WE FEEL VERY GOOD ABOUT
THAT.
WE ESTABLISHED AN 88 GRIEVANCE
PROCEDURE AND IN DISCUSSIONS
WITH THE CITY BASED ON CURRENT
FUNDING CYCLES WE BELIEVE THAT
COMPLIANCE CAN BE ACHIEVED OVER
THIRTY YEARS OR WITHIN THIRTY
YEARS.
THE CITY HAS COMMITTED OR THE
DEPARTMENT HAS COMMITTED
OF OVER 19 MILLION DOLLARS TO
COMPLETE THESE PROJECTS AND 19
MILLION THAT'S IN TODAY'S NOT
EXTRAPOLATED OVER 30 YEARS.
AND SOME OF THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS INCLUDE THINGS
THAT ARE MAINTENANCE AND OTHERS
WILL REQUIRE FULL FULL REDESIGN
AND AND CONSTRUCTION OF OF
FACILITIES.
>> SO THE PROGRESS AS WE
MENTIONED THE PLAN WAS APPROVED
BY AND MARCH IT GOES TO CITY
COUNCIL AND WE EXPECT APPROVAL
IN MAY.
WE'VE OR STAFF HAS BEEN ABLE TO
TAKE THE PLAN AND AND MOVE
FORWARD WITH SOME OF THE
PROJECTS THAT YOU SEE HERE.
THE PART NATURE AREA ACCESSIBLE
TRAIL.
OUR GOAL WAS MENTIONED EARLIER
BY ADAM THE BICENTENNIAL PARK
IMPROVEMENTS ALLMENDINGER PARK
SIDEWALKS AND AS WE MENTIONED
ALREADY THERE WAS THE CITY
HIRED AND ACCESSIBILITY
COORDINATOR WHICH THEN IS ALSO
HELPING THE PARKS DEPARTMENT
WITH IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
TRANSITION PLAN.
SO THAT WAS A QUICK OVERVIEW
OF WHAT WE'VE DONE IN THE PAST
AND MADE IT SEEM LIKE WE DID IT
OVERNIGHT BUT IT TOOK A LOT
OF TIME AND EFFORT TO GET US TO
THIS POINT.
BUT WE BELIEVE THE DEPARTMENT
IS IN GOOD HANDS AND HAS A
DOCUMENT THAT THEY CAN
IMPLEMENT.
THEY HAVE THE STAFF THAT WE
BELIEVE CAN IMPLEMENT IT.
SO WE LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING
HOW THE PLAN PROGRESS AND HOW
THE PARKS DEPARTMENT MAKES AND
ARBOR MORE ACCESSIBLE.
SO WITH THAT THANK YOU IN
ADVANCE AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
TIME AND WE'LL OPEN IT UP TO
ANY QUESTIONS THERE.
DAMON, I STAND OUTSIDE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT
DETAILED PRESENTATION.
I REALLY WANT TO GIVE PARKS AND
REC AS WELL AS ARTS ULTRA
SOLUTIONS A BIG SHOUT OUT FOR
ALL OF THEIR WORK THERE AND I
AGREE VERY EXCITED FOR THE WORK
THAT OUR CITY AID COORDINATOR
IS DOING DOING AN OUTSTANDING
JOB IN TERMS OF , YOU KNOW,
BEING ENTHUSIASTIC AND REALLY
LEANING INTO THE POSITION
THERE.
YOU DID MENTIONED EARLIER IN
YOUR PRESENTATION ABOUT SURVEYS
THAT STAFF WOULD BE TAKING
PERIODIC.
DO YOU MIND TOUCHING A LITTLE
BIT MORE ON THAT AND WHAT THE
SURVEYS WILL ENTAIL?
OH, SO THE SURVEYS THAT WE
DISCUSSED WERE SURVEYS THAT
WERE PART OF THE PUBLIC INPUT
PROCESS.
SO WE WE AT THE OPEN HOUSES AND
VIRTUALLY WE HAD POSTED SURVEYS
SO PEOPLE COULD GIVE US THEIR
PRIORITIES SO FOR EXAMPLE
SOMEBODY COULD LOG IN AND SAY I
MY NUMBER ONE PRIORITY IS ARGO
AND AND LIST THEM THAT WAY.
OR PEOPLE COULD ALSO SAY MY
BIGGEST PRIORITY IS PARKING.
I WANT ACCESSIBLE PARKING AND
SO FORTH AND THEN WE TOOK THAT
DATA AND HELPED CREATE
PRIORITIES WITHIN THE DOCUMENT
.
THOSE WERE THE SERVICES THAT
THAT I MEANT BY THAT.
UNDERSTOOD.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER EVAN.
>> HI, THIS IS AISHA.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO ECHO CHAIR
DAMON'S SENTIMENTS ABOUT HOW
THANKFUL I AM THAT YOU GUYS
REALLY MADE THIS SUCH A
THOROUGH PROCESS AND THINK
TRACY BYRD AND OTHER STAFF THAT
WERE INVOLVED AND I'M REALLY
EXCITED TO SEE THESE CHANGES GO
INTO EFFECT.
SO I THINK STAMPED
YOUR DAY I'M
SORRY.
ONE MORE ONE MORE QUESTION FOR
ALL OF YOU SINCE WE'VE WE'VE
GOT YOU ON THE LINE.
YOU MENTIONED THE BICENTENNIAL
PARK.
I KNOW AT LEAST
FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE YOU KNOW THAT PARK
IS CURRENTLY ALSO LOOKING FOR
EXTERNAL FUNDING IN TERMS
OF OTHER OTHER RESTORATION
RESTORATION AND THINGS OF THAT
SORT IN TERMS OF THAT PROJECT
IS THAT IS RESTORATION FOR THE
BICENTENNIAL PARK.
IS IS THAT PART OF THAT 19
MILLION OR NO?
YEAH.
SO I'LL GO.
>> AND SO AS WE STARTED
DEVELOPING THAT PROJECT WHAT WE
DID SO IT WAS FORMALLY
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK AND WHAT WE
DID IS WE WERE ABLE TO GET KIND
OF A PREVIEW OF THE REPORT AND
SEE ALL THE FINDINGS.
SO WE WERE ABLE TO WORK WITH
OUR ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS TO
PART OF IT IS REDESIGNING AND
RENOVATING THE RESTROOMS.
SO CURRENTLY WE'RE GOING TO BE
DOUBLING THE SIZE OF THE
RESTROOMS AND THEN MAKING SURE
EVERYTHING'S ADA COMPLIANT.
THERE WERE SOME PAVILION
UPGRADES AS PART OF THAT AND
THOSE WILL BE INCLUDED IN THAT
MAKING SURE WE'LL WILL BE
REDOING ALL OF THE SIDEWALKS TO
MAKE SURE WE HAVE PROPER SLOPES
TO GET RID OF EVERYTHING OUT
THERE.
OUR PARKING LOTS THOSE ARE
SCHEDULED TO BE REDONE AS PART
OF THIS AS WELL.
RIGHT NOW THEY'RE IN TERRIBLE
SHAPE.
THEY'RE NOT ACCESSIBLE.
ADDING IN THERE WAS LIKE CURB
RAMPS, THINGS LIKE THAT FROM
THE PARKING LOT INTO THE
SIDEWALKS.
SO YEAH, ALL OF THOSE WILL BE
PICKED UP AS PART OF THIS
PROJECT RIGHT NOW AS IT STANDS,
I THINK THE ONLY ELEMENT THAT
WON'T BE TOUCHED FOR THE
BICENTENNIAL IS THERE IS AN
EXISTING TOT PLAYGROUND THAT'S
CLOSER TO THE ROAD AND THAT IN
ITSELF IS DUE FOR REPLACEMENT
IN THE NEXT FOUR YEARS.
>> SO WE EXPECT FROM
BICENTENNIALS I WOULD SAY
PROBABLY 80 TO 90 PERCENT OF IT
IS PICKED UP AND THEN IN THE
NEXT FOUR YEARS WE WILL PICK UP
THE REST OF THAT AND THAT'S
INCLUDED IN THAT AMOUNT THAT WE
WOULD BE WORKING TOWARDS.
>> AND SO I DON'T KNOW IF WAS
MENTIONED THIS BUT WE HAVE TO
SUPPLY REGULAR REPORTS TO THE
DOJ SHOWING PROGRESS.
AND SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WE CAN SAY WE ARE MAKING THAT
PROGRESS TOWARDS IT AND
CHECKING THINGS OFF AS WE'RE
GOING THROUGH AND TAKING CARE
OF THOSE.
>> THANK YOU, ADAM.
YEAH, MR. RADCLIFF, UM, I JUST
WANT TO ECHO THANK YOU FOR
UNDERTAKING THIS.
I KNOW THAT IT'S A VERY LARGE
UNDERTAKING, ESPECIALLY WITH
THE AMOUNT OF EVALUATION THAT
HAD TO BE DONE.
MY I GUESS MY QUESTION IS YOU
SAID 19 MILLION DOLLARS OVER
THE NEXT 30 YEARS.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
WHERE IN TERMS OF DECIDING
WHICH PROJECTS TAKE PRIORITY IS
IT ONCE THAT AH IS IT LIKE ONES
THAT ARE THE MOST OUT
OF COMPLIANCE OR A COMBINATION
OF THAT AS WELL AS WHAT BUT
PARKS THAT KIND OF ALREADY
NEEDED RESTORATION?
>> YEAH I I THINK IT'S BOTH
THERE ARE PROJECTS THAT WE HAVE
TO DO TO MAINTAIN A LEVEL
OF SERVICE FOR THE COMMUNITY
THINGS THAT WE HAVE TO DO AND
SO IT'S MAKING SURE THAT THOSE
ARE PAIRED UP WITH THE PRIORITY
THE PLANS FOR THE PARKS AND THE
PRIORITIZATION US FROM THIS
PLAN.
SO I THINK IT'S BALANCING THAT
AND THEN SEEING WHERE THE NEEDS
ARE BASED ON ME.
SO I DO THINK IT'S BOTH
OF THEM.
AND THEN ONE THING SO THE
NINETEEN MILLION THAT WE'RE
SPENDING I MEAN WE HAVE TO FIND
FUNDING FOR A LOT OF US.
AND SO IN THESE FIRST COUPLE
OF YEARS AS WE REALLY GET GOING
IT'S A LOT OF THE THE LOWER
LYING THROUGH AND TRYING TO
PAIR WITH PROJECTS THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN ON ON OUR BOOKS ON
OUR OUR TABLE FOR A WHILE AND
THEN AS WE START TO TRANSITION
INTO DOING OTHER PARKS IN THE
FUTURE.
BUT THE FIRST FEW YEARS HERE WE
SEE IT'S WHAT CAN WE DO THE
SIMPLE THINGS THAT DON'T
REQUIRE AS MUCH FUNDING AND
PAIRING WITH OUR EXISTING
PROJECTS IN ADDITION TO THIS
PROJECT WE ARE ALSO STARTING
WHAT'S CALLED AN ASSET
MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR OUR PARKS
AND WE'RE HAVING CONSULTANTS
COME IN AND GIVE US A PICTURE
OF THE CONDITION OF ALL PARK
ASSETS, FACILITIES, NATURE
AREAS, EVERYTHING THAT WE OWN
AND IT WILL TELL US KIND OF AN
END OF A LIFE WHEN DO WE NEED
TO REPLACE WHAT ARE SOME THINGS
WE CAN DO TO IMPROVE IT RIGHT
NOW AND WE SEE THIS TRANSITION
PLAN BEING PUT INTO THAT MODEL
TO REALLY HELP US UNDERSTAND
WHAT PROJECTS WE NEED TO GET
TO, WHAT ARE THE PRIORITIES?
>> HOW CAN WE KIND OF PARE THIS
WORK UP WITH OTHER WORKS?
SO IT'S KIND OF IT'S KIND OF A
BALANCING ACT BUT IT'S ONE THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO WORK THROUGH AS
WE GO TOWARDS IT THAT ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION IT THAT AND I I
APPRECIATE A MORE DETAILED
EXPLANATION.
>> IT MADE SENSE TO ME TO DO IT
IN COMBINATION BUT WELL I JUST
IT'S A HUGE UNDERTAKING AND SO
THANK YOU.
>> YEAH.
NO DENHA WHEN YOU HAD YOUR HAND
THANK YOU.
UP DID YOU STILL HAVE A
NO DENHA WHEN YOU HAD YOUR HAND
QUESTION?
UP DID YOU STILL HAVE A
I WAS IT REALLY QUESTION IS
QUESTION?
MORE OF A COMMENT AND JOSH IS
I WAS IT REALLY QUESTION IS
TOUCH BASE WITH YOU ON THIS?
MORE OF A COMMENT AND JOSH IS
I DO HAVE A POTENTIAL FUNDING
TOUCH BASE WITH YOU ON THIS?
UPDATE FOR BICENTENNIAL PARK
I DO HAVE A POTENTIAL FUNDING
WHERE FELICIA PRABHAT AND I
UPDATE FOR BICENTENNIAL PARK
DISCUSSED IT AND SHE WOULD LIKE
WHERE FELICIA PRABHAT AND I
TO PUT IN A MILLION DOLLAR
DISCUSSED IT AND SHE WOULD LIKE
EARMARK.
TO PUT IN A MILLION DOLLAR
SO IT IS HER SECOND ITEM ON HER
EARMARK.
LIST BUT THERE'S A STRONG
SO IT IS HER SECOND ITEM ON HER
CHANCE THAT IT WILL BE FUNDED
LIST BUT THERE'S A STRONG
AND I'LL JUST TOUCH BASE WITH
CHANCE THAT IT WILL BE FUNDED
YOU MORE CONTINUALLY SO THAT
AND I'LL JUST TOUCH BASE WITH
YOU CAN ALSO LET ME KNOW OTHER
YOU MORE CONTINUALLY SO THAT
PARKS THAT MAY NEED FUNDING AS
YOU CAN ALSO LET ME KNOW OTHER
WELL AND WE GREATLY APPRECIATE
PARKS THAT MAY NEED FUNDING AS
THAT AND PLEASE DO AND THAT
WELL AND WE GREATLY APPRECIATE
GIVES ME AN OPPORTUNITY TO JUST
THAT AND PLEASE DO AND THAT
JUMP IN AND SAY THANK YOU FOR
GIVES ME AN OPPORTUNITY TO JUST
HAVING US HERE TODAY.
JUMP IN AND SAY THANK YOU FOR
THIS HAS BEEN A HUGE
HAVING US HERE TODAY.
UNDERTAKING THAT ADAM AND
THIS HAS BEEN A HUGE
ACTUALLY HAVE DONE IN A REALLY
UNDERTAKING THAT ADAM AND
KNOW.
ACTUALLY HAVE DONE IN A REALLY
MY GOAL FOR THE PARKS
KNOW.
DEPARTMENT IS TO TRULY ENSURE
MY GOAL FOR THE PARKS
THAT WE ARE ACCESSIBLE AND
DEPARTMENT IS TO TRULY ENSURE
INCLUSIVE OF ALL RESIDENTS IN
THAT WE ARE ACCESSIBLE AND
ANN ARBOR.
INCLUSIVE OF ALL RESIDENTS IN
SO THIS ENSURES US WE KNOW WE
ANN ARBOR.
HAVE A LOT OF WORK TO DO AND
SO THIS ENSURES US WE KNOW WE
IT'LL TAKE SOME TIME BUT WE'RE
HAVE A LOT OF WORK TO DO AND
REMINDED EVERY DAY OF THE
IT'LL TAKE SOME TIME BUT WE'RE
THINGS THAT WE NEED TO DO TO
REMINDED EVERY DAY OF THE
ENSURE THAT THAT INCLUSIVE CITY
THINGS THAT WE NEED TO DO TO
SO WE APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT
ENSURE THAT THAT INCLUSIVE CITY
WITH THIS AND WE'LL CONTINUE TO
SO WE APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT
KEEP COMING BACK.
WITH THIS AND WE'LL CONTINUE TO
WE CAN GIVE YOU UPDATES EVERY
KEEP COMING BACK.
COUPLE OF YEARS, DO SOME STUFF
WE CAN GIVE YOU UPDATES EVERY
WITH IT.
COUPLE OF YEARS, DO SOME STUFF
I BELIEVE IN HAVING
WITH IT.
PARTNERSHIPS WITH OUR
I BELIEVE IN HAVING
ORGANIZATION SO JUST WANTED TO
PARTNERSHIPS WITH OUR
SAY THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
ORGANIZATION SO JUST WANTED TO
>> JOSH, THANK YOU.
SAY THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
AND ON THAT POINT, YOU KNOW, AS
>> JOSH, THANK YOU.
YOU GUYS CONTINUE TO RAISE
AND ON THAT POINT, YOU KNOW, AS
FUNDS, YOU NEED OUTREACH IN
YOU GUYS CONTINUE TO RAISE
TERMS OF THE ADA ACCESSIBILITY
FUNDS, YOU NEED OUTREACH IN
PLAN WITH THE PARKS.
TERMS OF THE ADA ACCESSIBILITY
YOU KNOW, I DON'T SPEAK FOR THE
PLAN WITH THE PARKS.
FULL COMMISSION ON THIS AND I
YOU KNOW, I DON'T SPEAK FOR THE
WANT ALL COMMISSIONERS TO BE
FULL COMMISSION ON THIS AND I
UNIFIED IN THIS.
WANT ALL COMMISSIONERS TO BE
BUT PLEASE LET US KNOW IF WE
UNIFIED IN THIS.
CAN HELP SPREAD THE WORD ON
BUT PLEASE LET US KNOW IF WE
THAT.
CAN HELP SPREAD THE WORD ON
THERE ARE FLIERS IF THERE ARE
THAT.
THINGS THAT WE CAN PUT OUT AT
THERE ARE FLIERS IF THERE ARE
OUR INFO TABLE, THINGS THAT WE
THINGS THAT WE CAN PUT OUT AT
CAN TELL THE COMMUNITY ABOUT TO
OUR INFO TABLE, THINGS THAT WE
TO HAVE THE COMMUNITY SUPPORT
CAN TELL THE COMMUNITY ABOUT TO
THE ADA ACCESSIBILITY PLAN WITH
TO HAVE THE COMMUNITY SUPPORT
THE PARKS.
THE ADA ACCESSIBILITY PLAN WITH
>> WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO BE AN
THE PARKS.
OUTLET FOR THAT IN MY OPINION.
>> WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO BE AN
THANK YOU.
OUTLET FOR THAT IN MY OPINION.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
ANYTHING ELSE FOR PARKS AND
ALL RIGHT.
RECREATION AT THIS TIME ALREADY
ANYTHING ELSE FOR PARKS AND
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
RECREATION AT THIS TIME ALREADY
ON TO OUR UPDATED AGENDA ITEM
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
WHICH IS THE COUNCIL REPORT
ON TO OUR UPDATED AGENDA ITEM
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER GUY GHAZI
WHICH IS THE COUNCIL REPORT
EDWINS.
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER GUY GHAZI
SO THE CITY COUNCIL UPDATE
EDWINS.
COUNCIL MEMBER, THANK YOU SO
SO THE CITY COUNCIL UPDATE
MUCH.
COUNCIL MEMBER, THANK YOU SO
THIS IS AISHA.
MUCH.
SO I HAVE A FEW THINGS THAT I
THIS IS AISHA.
JUST WANT TO TOUCH ON QUICKLY
SO I HAVE A FEW THINGS THAT I
AND THANK YOU AGAIN FOR
JUST WANT TO TOUCH ON QUICKLY
ACCOMMODATING ME AND EARLIER IN
AND THANK YOU AGAIN FOR
THE AGENDA, YOU KNOW, MAYBE WE
ACCOMMODATING ME AND EARLIER IN
CAN START WITH WE TALKED
THE AGENDA, YOU KNOW, MAYBE WE
PREVIOUSLY ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
CAN START WITH WE TALKED
NEED FOR AN EDUCATIONAL
PREVIOUSLY ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
CAMPAIGN SO THE PUBLIC IS AWARE
NEED FOR AN EDUCATIONAL
THAT PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
CAMPAIGN SO THE PUBLIC IS AWARE
THAT ARE POTENTIALLY USING
THAT PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
MOBILITY DEVICES OR OTHERWISE
THAT ARE POTENTIALLY USING
ARE ALSO ABLE TO USE BIKE LANES
MOBILITY DEVICES OR OTHERWISE
AND THE NEED TO ALSO ENSURE
ARE ALSO ABLE TO USE BIKE LANES
SIDEWALKS ARE CLEARED BECAUSE
AND THE NEED TO ALSO ENSURE
IT'S AN ACCESS ISSUE.
SIDEWALKS ARE CLEARED BECAUSE
SO ALEX GOSSAGE AND MYSELF
IT'S AN ACCESS ISSUE.
TODAY MET WITH OUR DIRECTOR
SO ALEX GOSSAGE AND MYSELF
OF TRANSPORTATION RAYMOND HATS
TODAY MET WITH OUR DIRECTOR
AND ESSENTIALLY WE AGREE THAT
OF TRANSPORTATION RAYMOND HATS
THERE WOULD BE KIND OF A SOFT A
AND ESSENTIALLY WE AGREE THAT
LOT OF A LOT OF AN EDUCATIONAL
THERE WOULD BE KIND OF A SOFT A
CAMPAIGN WHERE THEY'RE GOING TO
LOT OF A LOT OF AN EDUCATIONAL
PROMOTE THIS INFORMATION ON
CAMPAIGN WHERE THEY'RE GOING TO
SOCIAL MEDIA AND INTEGRATED
PROMOTE THIS INFORMATION ON
INTO ANY OF THEIR WORKSHOPS
SOCIAL MEDIA AND INTEGRATED
THAT MAY HAVE TO DO WITH WORK
INTO ANY OF THEIR WORKSHOPS
WITH ROADS OR OTHERWISE.
THAT MAY HAVE TO DO WITH WORK
AND IF THERE IS A NEED FOR
WITH ROADS OR OTHERWISE.
SOMETHING GREATER THAN IT WILL
AND IF THERE IS A NEED FOR
BE A BUDGET REQUIREMENT AND
SOMETHING GREATER THAN IT WILL
THAT'S WHERE I COULD COME AND
BE A BUDGET REQUIREMENT AND
POTENTIALLY REQUEST SOMETHING
THAT'S WHERE I COULD COME AND
IF NEEDED.
POTENTIALLY REQUEST SOMETHING
ALEX, DO YOU WANT TO CONTRIBUTE
IF NEEDED.
ANYTHING TO THIS?
ALEX, DO YOU WANT TO CONTRIBUTE
I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE'S
ANYTHING TO THIS?
NECESSARILY ANYTHING ELSE TO
I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE'S
ADD BUT I WAS A GOOD
NECESSARILY ANYTHING ELSE TO
CONVERSATION OVERALL I
ADD BUT I WAS A GOOD
APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
CONVERSATION OVERALL I
START SOMETHING NOW VERSUS
APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
LATER AND YOU KNOW AGAIN FOCUS
START SOMETHING NOW VERSUS
ON ACCESS ISSUES FOR ALL OF US
LATER AND YOU KNOW AGAIN FOCUS
AND THE COMMUNITY, ALL FACETS
ON ACCESS ISSUES FOR ALL OF US
SO REALLY HAPPY WE WERE ABLE TO
AND THE COMMUNITY, ALL FACETS
DO IT AND I APPRECIATE YOUR
SO REALLY HAPPY WE WERE ABLE TO
SUPPORT IN MAKING THAT HAPPEN
DO IT AND I APPRECIATE YOUR
ASIA.
SUPPORT IN MAKING THAT HAPPEN
>> OH YEAH.
ASIA.
OF COURSE.
>> OH YEAH.
SO THERE'S A FEW OTHER THINGS I
OF COURSE.
WANT.
SO THERE'S A FEW OTHER THINGS I
I JUST IT'S CURRENTLY THE
WANT.
BUDGET PROCESS SO IF ALL OF YOU
I JUST IT'S CURRENTLY THE
DON'T KNOW THE CITY
BUDGET PROCESS SO IF ALL OF YOU
ADMINISTRATOR SHARE THIS BUDGET
DON'T KNOW THE CITY
WITH US ON MONDAY AND NOW THERE
ADMINISTRATOR SHARE THIS BUDGET
IS A MILLION DOLLARS THAT'S
WITH US ON MONDAY AND NOW THERE
LEFT OVER FOR COUNCIL TO MAKE
IS A MILLION DOLLARS THAT'S
RECOMMENDATIONS.
LEFT OVER FOR COUNCIL TO MAKE
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I AM
RECOMMENDATIONS.
WORKING ON IS CREATING A
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I AM
HOUSING LIST.
WORKING ON IS CREATING A
IT'LL BE A SEARCHABLE DATABASE
HOUSING LIST.
THAT WILL INCLUDE ALL OF OUR
IT'LL BE A SEARCHABLE DATABASE
PRIVATE AND PUBLIC RENTAL
THAT WILL INCLUDE ALL OF OUR
HOUSING ALONG WITH DIFFERENT
PRIVATE AND PUBLIC RENTAL
FEATURES SUCH AS ACCESSIBILITY
HOUSING ALONG WITH DIFFERENT
FEATURES.
FEATURES SUCH AS ACCESSIBILITY
IT'LL BE SEARCHABLE AGAIN
FEATURES.
PUBLIC FACING FOR ALL RESIDENTS
IT'LL BE SEARCHABLE AGAIN
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE HAVE
PUBLIC FACING FOR ALL RESIDENTS
IN DETROIT WHICH MY
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE HAVE
ORGANIZATION HELPED DETROIT
IN DETROIT WHICH MY
DISABILITY POWER HELPED
TO HELP
THE CITY OF DETROIT TO GET UP
AND IT'S CALLED DETROIT HOME.
SO I'M WORKING WITH THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT TO GET SOME
ESTIMATIONS ON THE COST
OF SOFTWARE STAFF AND THEN I
WILL BE SUBMITTING IT ALONG
WITH THE RESOLUTION.
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HAS
BEEN ASKED BY SEVERAL
ORGANIZATIONS, DISABILITY
ORGANIZATIONS AND ADVOCATES IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY BECAUSE A LOT
OF OUR ORGANIZATIONS ALSO HELP
TO PLACE PEOPLE IN HOUSING AND
THERE ISN'T PUBLICLY AVAILABLE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE LEVEL
OF ACCESS IT CAN MAKE IT EVEN
MORE DIFFICULT OUT PERIODICALLY
UPDATE YOU GUYS THAT I MAY NEED
SOME HELP WITH WRITING A
RESOLUTION.
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT IT
, DAMON?
>> I YES COUNCIL MEMBER FIRST
OF ALL OUTSTANDING TO HERE.
I THINK YOU KNOW IT'S IN ANN
ARBOR HOUSING CONNECT OR SOME
SORT OF YOU KNOW, VARIATION
THAT WOULD BE WOULD BE
OUTSTANDING ESPECIALLY
CONSIDERING, YOU KNOW, HOW MANY
PROPERTIES THERE ARE IN ANN
ARBOR, HOW MANY CONTINUE TO BE
DEVELOPED IN DIFFERENT THINGS.
I JUST SEE THAT BEING IN MY
OPINION A HUGE RESOURCE FOR THE
COMMUNITY AND FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AS FAR AS THE
RESOLUTION GOES, YOU KNOW,
HAPPY TO ASSIST IN ANY WAY SO
PLEASE KEEP MYSELF INFORMED
OF THAT.
>> ANY OTHERS THAT THAT
EXPRESSED INTEREST IN ASSISTING
?
OK, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
AND IT WILL BE THERE WILL BE A
DATABASE THAT ALSO INCLUDING
FEATURING ACCESS INFORMATION
OF OF UNITS RESIDENTS WILL BE
ABLE TO SEARCH HOUSING BY
INCOME AND FAMILY SIZE AND ALL
THESE DIFFERENT VARIABLES.
SO I'LL KEEP YOU ALL UPDATED ON
THAT.
I'M ALSO HOPING TO PROPOSE A
RESOLUTION THERE IS INCREASED
FUNDING THAT IS GOING TO BE
GIVEN TO OUR ROADS DEPARTMENT
NEXT YEAR FOR SPECIFICALLY SNOW
MANAGEMENT.
>> THE SNOW WAS A BIG ISSUE
THIS YEAR COUNCIL MEMBER
GOVERNMENT THERE WERE A FEW
PEOPLE WHO HAD THEIR HANDS.
OH SURE.
YEAH.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE, THIS IS WHAT WE'RE
ASKING SOLELY ABOUT THE HOUSING
LIST RIGHT FOR IT'S COMING FROM
ONE MILLION DOLLARS.
IS THAT THE ONE MILLION DOLLARS
THAT WAS A PART OF THE
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX AT ANY
YEAH IT IS.
>> AND SO THEN ARE THE CURRENT
PROGRAMS THEN HAVING TO REAPPLY
FOR THAT ONE MILLION DOLLARS
AND SO THIS WOULD BE A PART
OF IT WOULD BE COMPETING WITH
WHAT THAT PERHAPS WELL
POTENTIALLY I'VE TALKED
INTERNALLY WITH COUNCIL MEMBERS
AND OUR TOP PRIORITY IS THE
RISING HOPE PROGRAM THAT WAS
CHAMPIONED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON THAT IT'S GOING TO BE
A PART TIME TEMPORARY STAFF TO
SET THIS DATABASE UP AND A
SOFTWARE THAT WE ALREADY HAVE.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO GET LIKE AN
EXPANDED LICENSE SO IT SHOULD
NOT COMPETE WITH THE OTHER
PROGRAMS AND I'M NOT I'M SURE
BOTH SIDES OF RISING HOPE.
WHAT ELSE IS PLANNING TO BE
REAPPLIED FOR AT THIS TIME?
YEAH, BECAUSE I THINK COMING
OF LIKE ONE OF THEM IT SOUNDED
LIKE IT WAS KIND OF A ONE TIME
THING SO BUT ANYWAY, IF YOU
NEED HELP WITH THE RESOLUTION
I'M AROUND OK?
>> YEAH THAT WHAT THAT WOULD BE
REALLY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE YOU HAD
YOUR HAND UP.
DID YOU STILL HAVE A QUESTION?
NO, I THINK I JUST GOT MY
QUESTION.
THANK YOU.
OK, OK GREAT CARE DAYMAN YEAH.
ONE FINAL COMMENT.
YOU KNOW I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
IT I JUST WANTED TO TO MENTION
THIS TO THE FULL COMMISSION
COUNCIL NO IF YOU DON'T MIND
BUT I ALSO HOPE THAT OUT
OF THAT THAT ONE MILLION THAT
YOU KNOW THERE CAN BE A
POSSIBILITY DOWN THE LINE AT
SOME POINT FOR YOU TWO POSSIBLE
FUNDS FOR FOR OUR ACTIVITIES AS
THE COMMISSION.
YOU KNOW, I BELIEVE OUR
COMMISSION IS MAKING A GREAT
CONTRIBUTION TO TO OUR
COMMUNITY AND HAS A GREAT VOICE
AND IS A GREAT RESOURCE NOT
ONLY FOR THE COMMUNITY BUT TO
THE CITY.
AND YOU KNOW, I JUST HOPE THAT
THE CITY CAN SEE THAT THAT THAT
OUR COMMISSION CAN CAN BENEFIT
FROM A LITTLE BIT OF WATERING
AND A LITTLE BIT OF NURTURING
WITH SOME ALLOCATION THERE FROM
FROM SOME OF THOSE FUNDS.
SO YOU IS THAT COMES ABOUT
PLEASE PLEASE KEEP OUR
COMMISSION IN MIND IN TERMS
WHETHER IT'S YOU KNOW, USING
THOSE FUNDS FOR DIFFERENT
MATERIALS FOR FOR INFO TABLES,
WHETHER THAT'S FOR PATREON IT
TO DIFFERENT EVENTS AND MANY
OTHER DIFFERENT THINGS.
AND I CAN I CAN YOU KNOW YOU
AND I CAN TALK MORE ABOUT THAT
BUT BUT I JUST WANTED TO
MENTION PUBLICLY TO THE FULL
COMMISSION THAT I AM DOING MY
BEST TO TO ENSURE THAT OUR
COMMISSION IS SUPPORTED IN SOME
WAY HOPEFULLY WITH SOME
OF THOSE FUNDS.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU CHAIRMAN.
YET YOU AND I DID TALK ABOUT
THIS EARLIER AND I DO PLAN TO
PUT IN A RESOLUTION ASKING FOR
A TWO POINT FIVE THOUSAND OR SO
TWO AND A HALF THOUSAND BECAUSE
I DO THINK THAT THERE ARE
ACTIVITIES THAT REQUIRE
ACCESSIBILITY, KNOW WE HAVE
SOME ACCESSIBILITY NEEDS MAKING
SURE CARD AND ACEL AND WHATNOT
TRANSPORTATION AND ALSO
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
SO I AM GOING TO BE PUTTING
THAT IN A I GUESS IT'S KIND
OF PAIRED TOGETHER AT THE
PRESENT STATION.
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
MENTIONED THAT THERE WAS AN
EXTRA ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
FIVE THOUSAND THIS YEAR AND SO
JUST TO PIGGYBACK OFF OF WHAT
COMMISSIONER DAMON SAID, COULD
ANY OF THAT GO TOWARDS KODAI
EVEN IF IT'S JUST A ONE TIME
DEAL FOR THIS YEAR TO START OFF
THERE'S ANOTHER ISSUE ISN'T TO
ME IT ISN'T JUST YOU KNOW, THE
NEED FOR ACEL ID CARDS OR
TABLING MATERIALS BUT YOU KNOW,
WE IT WOULD HAVE BEEN REALLY
NICE TO ME IF OUR CHAIRMAN HERE
HAD BEEN ABLE TO GO TO DC WAS
IT LAST WEEK FOR THE CONVENING
THAT THAT HAPPENED ON BEHALF
OF THE CITY AT ANN ARBOR AND
KODAI?
AND I THINK THAT THERE ARE SOME
REALLY IMPORTANT CONFERENCES
AND EVENTS THAT IF IF SENDING
HIM OR OUR VICE CHAIR TO COULD
REALLY BENEFIT THE COMMISSION
AND THE CITY ITSELF.
>> YEAH, I ABSOLUTELY AGREE
THERE IS GOING TO BE A PART
OF THE BUDGET THAT'S INCREASED
AROUND.
YEAH, I WILL THINK ABOUT THIS
CREATIVELY THAT THAT IS A VERY
GOOD POINT.
I'M ALSO WONDERING IF IT CAN BE
INCLUDED AS PART OF ANOTHER
ASPECT OF THE BUDGET THAT ISN'T
EXPLICITLY ABOUT COMMISSIONS
RIGHT NOW BUT POTENTIALLY COULD
BE SO THANKS FOR RAISING THAT
AND I'M GOING TO SUBMIT A
BUDGET QUESTION CLARIFYING
ABOUT ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH.
SO THANKS THANKS FOR REMINDING
ME OF THAT.
THE OTHER THING THAT I AM GOING
TO BE WORKING ON IS SO
INCREASED FUNDING IS BEING
GIVEN TO SNOW NEXT YEAR AND I
WANT TO SUBMIT A RESOLUTION
SAYING THAT SPECIAL ATTENTION
NEEDS TO BE MADE MORE FREQUENT
PLOWING OF BASICALLY
ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES SO CURB
CUTS AND ACCESSIBLE PARKING
SPACES ENSURING THAT PILES ARE
CLEARLY VISIBLE RAMPS AS WELL
AS OTHER THINGS.
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT I WILL
NEED ALL OF YOUR GUESTS HELP ON
.
>> SO WHAT RESOLUTIONS DO IS
THEY DIRECT STAFF ATTENTION AND
PHYSICAL RESOURCES.
SO I HOPE TO SUBMIT THAT AS
WELL.
SO THOSE ARE THE THREE THINGS
IT'S KODAI BUDGET HOUSING LESS
AND SNOW MANAGEMENT AND
ACCESSIBILITY PLAN THAN SOME
OTHER THINGS THAT I SHOULD
MENTION.
>> APRIL IS DECLARE NATIONAL
FAIR HOUSING MONTH WITH A WITH
A FOCUS ON THE NUMBER
OF COMPLAINTS.
THAT'S THE HIGHEST NUMBER
OF COMPLAINTS FOR HOUSING
ISSUES FROM PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
AND IN JUNE I PLAN TO SUBMIT
APPROXIMATELY PROCLAMATION FOR
DISABILITY PRIDE MONTH AND I'M
NOT SURE YET IF WE HAVE THOUGHT
ABOUT AS A COMMISSION SOME SORT
OF ACTIVITY.
OBVIOUSLY HAVING A BUDGET WOULD
MAKE IT EASIER RIGHT.
I KNOW THE DISABILITY CARAVAN
IS SOMETHING THAT'S MOVING
THROUGH THE NATION RIGHT NOW
AND ALEX WAS INVOLVED IN AND
WORKING WITH THEM ABOUT THEM
COMING THROUGH A PARK.
BUT JUST KEEP THAT IN MIND AND
IF YOU HAVE IDEAS FOR SOMETHING
THE CITY COULD DO TO CELEBRATE
DISABILITY, LET ME KNOW IT DID
I PREVIOUSLY UPDATE ALL VIEW
ABOUT RIGHT TO SIT DOWN TO
REMEMBER THIS IS A CHAIR AND I
BELIEVE YOU MENTIONED IT
BRIEFLY BUT PLEASE IF YOU DON'T
MIND JUST TOUCHING ON IT ONCE
MORE I THINK THAT WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL.
>> SCHERTZ CURRENTLY THERE IS
NO LAW THAT ALLOWS PEOPLE THE
RIGHT TO SIT IN THEIR WORKING.
IT USED TO BE FEDERALLY
PROTECTED UNTIL ABOUT NINETEEN
SEVENTY BUT IT NO LONGER IS AND
SO NOW CITIES BY CITIES ARE
ENACTING ORDINANCES AND OR
HOPEFULLY STATE LAW.
ALL RIGHT.
OUR LAW OUR STATE LAWS DO NOT
PROTECT IT AND I WAS TOLD IT
WAS POTENTIALLY PREEMPTIVE SO
THAT THE STATE HAD A LAW THAT
BLOCKED FROM MAKING ANY SORT
OF CHANGES AT A LOCAL LEVEL TO
OF COURSE EMPLOYMENT.
RIGHT AND BUSINESSES.
BUT I GOT A LEGAL OPINION AND
IN FACT IT'S NOT PREEMPTED SO
ARBOR CAN PURSUE THIS AND I HAD
A GROUP OF HAIRSTYLISTS CONTACT
ME WHO HAVE DISABILITIES AND I
WANTED TO HEAR WAS SEATED THEIR
JOBS WERE BEING THREATENED.
SO I WANT TO LET YOU GUYS KNOW
THAT I'M IN THE WORKS
OF CREATING THAT AND ORGANIZING
AND IF YOU ALL SUPPORT
SOMETHING LIKE THAT, I'M SURE
YOU DO OR KNOW PEOPLE TO
SUPPORT THERE WILL BE A DATE IN
THE FUTURE THAT I'LL GIVE OR IT
WILL BE IMPORTANT FOR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS TO CALL IN OR SHOW UP
.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER FISHER
PACARD.
>> I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANK
YOU FOR ALL THAT YOU'RE DOING
WITH THAT AND WITH THAT
MOVEMENT MOVING FORWARD, IS
THERE ANYTHING WE CAN DO TO
RAISE SUPPORT FOR THAT?
I DON'T KNOW IF PETITIONS NEED
TO BE SIGNED OR JUST ANYTHING
TO GET THAT WORD OUT GET HELP.
>> YEAH.
KNOW ANYTHING THAT INCREASES
EXPOSURE BECAUSE THEN THAT
HELPS TO KIND OF PUT THAT
PRESSURE.
SO IF IT'S A PETITION OR
ANYTHING LIKE ANN ARBOR FOR THE
RIGHT TO SET, THAT'S ALWAYS
HELPFUL AS I'M I DON'T EXPECT
TO HAVE A LOT OF BUSINESSES
PUSHING BACK.
BUT HONESTLY YOU NEVER KNOW
WHEN IT COMES TO THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY AND IN GENERAL, YOU
KNOW SO YEAH.
ANY ANYTHING TO UPLIFT IT IS
APPRECIATED.
I THINK THERE IS ONE LAST THING
I APOLOGIZE.
I WAS KIND OF DRAGGING SO MY
ORGANIZATION DETROIT DISABILITY
POWER IN CONJUNCTION NOW WITH
THE CARTER CENTER AND MICHIGAN
VOICES WHICH IS A STATEWIDE
PROGRESSIVE ORGANIZATION WE ARE
WHAT WE'VE BEEN DOING THESE
AUDITS OF POLLING LOCATIONS
AUDITING THEM FOR ACCESSIBILITY
AND PREVIOUSLY WE WERE JUST
FOCUSED ON DETROIT.
BUT IT HAS NOW BECOME SOMETHING
THAT SECRETARY OF STATE IS
INTERESTED IN AND WE ARE
THEY'RE HELPING US.
WE'RE HELPING THEM AND WE'VE
EXPANDED THIS TO WASHINGTON ON
ANN ARBOR AND WE WILL BE DOING
IT DURING THE NINE DAYS
OF EARLY VOTING AND ON ELECTION
DAY DURING THE GENERAL AND THE
PRIMARY.
>> BUT THE NINE DAYS OF EARLY
VOTING IS WHEN IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT SPECIFICALLY THE
FIRST DAY SO THAT WE CAN GIVE
PEOPLE TIME TO MAKE CORRECTIONS
RIGHT.
WE ARE TRYING TO WORK ON
GETTING OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK SO
THAT STUDENTS CAN HELP WITH THE
AUDIT.
BUT I WANT TO PUT THE
INFORMATION HERE BECAUSE ANY
OF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN
VOLUNTEERING OR KNOW PEOPLE
THAT WOULD BE A REALLY
IMPORTANT ASSET FOR US SO I CAN
SHARE MORE INFORMATION AS IT
GETS CLOSER.
OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THAT'S IT FOR ME.
OH I SEE SOME QUESTIONS.
MISSIONER CHAMBER HI.
>> YEAH I JUST WANTED TO SAY I
THINK THAT SOUNDS LIKE SUCH AN
AMAZING IDEA AND IF THERE'S
ANYTHING I CAN DO TO SUPPORT I
KNOW YOU SAID YOU WANTED TO GET
STUDENTS IN THE SCHOOL
OF SOCIAL WORK INVOLVED.
I'M A TRAINED IN THE SCHOOL
OF SOCIAL WORK SO IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT I CAN DO TO HELP
WITH GETTING OTHER STUDENTS
INVOLVED, I WOULD LOVE TO BE
PART OF THAT.
>> YEAH, THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
I THINK TALKING TO OTHER
STUDENTS AND SPREADING THE WORD
WORD BUT ALSO I KNOW THE SCHOOL
RIGHT NOW IS FOCUSING ON DOING
LIKE A BIG GOTV PROJECT SO
BRINGING THAT UP TO FACULTY IN
CHARGE OF THAT WOULD BE GREAT
AND I'VE ALSO CONTACTED THEM
BUT THANK YOU I APPRECIATE THAT
A LOT OF RADCLYFFE IT'S ABOUT
ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS THAT
YOU MENTIONED.
I KNOW THAT IT WAS REALLY ABOUT
THE BIKE LANES AND BEING
BROUGHT UP SIDEWALKS AND THAT
REMINDED ME THAT I DON'T KNOW
WHAT IT'S LIKE AND OTHER WORDS
AROUND THE CITY BUT IN WARD
THREE WE'RE HAVING A LOT
OF CERTAIN PARTS OF WARD THREE,
WE'RE HAVING A LOT OF THE
GROCERY STORE CARDS LEFT ON THE
SIDEWALKS INCLUDING THE CREWCUT
AREAS AND THE AREAS IN FRONT
OF BUS STOPS WHICH ARE REALLY,
YOU KNOW, IMPEDING THE PATHWAY
FOR IF SOMEONE USES A
WHEELCHAIR LITTLE OH I'M SORRY
I JUST SAID RIGHT NOW I SEE IT
ALL THE TIME.
YEAH, RIGHT.
YEAH I KNOW LIKE IN IN MY
PARTICULAR NEIGHBORHOOD WE DO
HAVE SOMEONE WHO'S BLIND AND
USES A CANE WHEN WHEN WALKING
AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
IT'S JUST A IT'S A HIGH CONCERN
.
>> YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT CAN BE DONE
LIKE I'VE REPORTED IT CLICK FIX
BUT IT'S LIKE EVERY DAY I SEE
ONE THE AREA NOW THAT'S A
REALLY, REALLY GOOD CONCERN
THAT WE DIDN'T BRING UP WITH
RAYMOND TODAY.
BUT IF YOU COULD WRITE ME AN
EMAIL THEN I WILL FORWARD IT TO
RAYMOND SO THAT IT'S DOCUMENTED
HE CAN SEE IT AND JUST TO KIND
OF SAY IN THE SHORT TERM IS
THERE SOMETHING THAT WE CAN DO
AND ALSO IN YOUR WEBSITE THAT
HE'S GOING TO DRAFT UP WOULD BE
PUTTING ON THE WEBSITE SHARE
THE SIDEWALK AND ROADS AND BIKE
LANE RESPONSIBLY AND AND
INFORMATION ON SOCIAL MEDIA AND
IN TOWN HALLS THAT YOU ALSO
INTEGRATE LIKE THINGS LIKE
SHOPPING CART?
>> YEAH, THAT'S AN IMMEDIATE
SOLUTION.
IT MIGHT BE SOMETHING THAT
COMMUNITY STANDARDS COULD GET
INVOLVED THEN POTENTIALLY MIGHT
ACTUALLY HELP TO MOVE.
>> BUT I HAVE TO THINK MORE
ABOUT THAT.
>> IF THEY MOVED THEM LIKE
SEVERAL DAYS LATER SOMETIMES
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
AND WRITES I THINK SORRY TO
INTERRUPT.
>> GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
>> I WAS JUST SAYING THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR RAISING MY
ATTENTION.
SO YEAH THAT THAT IS A REALLY
IT'S AN ISSUE AND IF YOU COULD
WRITE TO ME ABOUT IT AND TO MY
COUNCIL EMAIL AND THEN I WILL
FORWARD IT AS LIKE A WHAT CAN
BE DONE IMMEDIATELY AND CAN YOU
INTEGRATE INTO THE LONG TERM
STRATEGY I'M SURE YOU HAVE YOUR
HAND RAISED THIS CIRCULAR YOU
MIGHT BE ON MUTE SIR.
OH ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S IT FOR ME EVERYBODY.
OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
PARKER DO YOU HAVE YOUR HAND?
OH YEAH EXACTLY.
I APPRECIATE WHAT YOU BROUGHT
UP ABOUT FUNDING WITH YOU KNOW
ANY CODING RELATED PROGRAMS
MOVING FORWARD AND I KNOW WE'VE
DISCUSSED OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF MONTHS VISUAL EFFECTS,
ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES SUCH AS
THE PATRIOT IN VARIOUS AREAS
THAT COULD USE DEVICE AND THAT
MIGHT BE SOMETHING WE CAN
DISCUSS POSSIBLY WITH ANY ANY
FUNDING THAT MIGHT COME UP.
I JUST THOUGHT I'D KIND
OF WATCH THAT WORD IN THERE AND
MENTION THAT WHILE WE WERE
DISCUSSING BUT THANK YOU FOR
THAT FOR WHAT YOU HAD MENTIONED
.
THANK YOU, ROBERT.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> I'M SORRY TO KEEP TALKING.
UM, COULD YOU WRITE ME THAT
BECAUSE WHAT I'M DOING RIGHT
NOW IS I'M GOING TO DRAFT UP
LIKE A BUDGET JUSTIFICATION
EMAIL AND I WANT TO LIST OUT
EVERYTHING.
>> THE MONEY WOULD BE USED FOR
ENTREPRENEURS ETC. ETC. SO IF
SOMEONE COULD JUST SEND ME THAT
THAT HELPFUL.
>> YEAH I WAS PLANNING ON
ACTUALLY DRAFTING THE DOCUMENT
BUT YOU KNOW, ROSILY WROTE
COMMISSIONER TRACKWAY FOR
COMMISSIONER PACKARD IF BOTH
OF YOU WOULD LIKE TO TO THE
SHARE THAT DOCUMENTS ARE
DRAFTED IN THE NEXT COUPLE
OF DAYS, I'M HAPPY TO SHARE IT
WITH YOU AND MAYBE IT CAN BE
KIND OF A WORKING DOCUMENT AND
THEN MAYBE BY THE END OF THE
WEEK WE'LL SEND IT OFF TO
COUNCIL MEMBER ONE HOW DO WE
FEEL ABOUT THAT GREAT TEAMWORK,
MY FRIEND WOULD BE GREAT.
>> THANK YOU GUYS.
ABSOLUTELY.
YEAH.
SHOULD I USED TO HAVE YOUR HAND
UP ARE YOU CAN YOU HEAR US NOW
OR ARE YOU ABLE TO SPEAK OR CAN
YOU HEAR ME.
>> YES.
HELLO.
>> OH GOOD YOU CAN HEAR ME
BECAUSE I WAS TRYING A
DIFFERENT DIFFERENT SPEAKER
WHICH I WAS LISTENING TO
BECAUSE I DIDN'T HAVE TO AND
APPARENTLY WHEN I WENT TO
UNMUTED DIDN'T WANT TO REGISTER
BUT OK AND I CAN ALSO TALK TO
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
ABOUT THE ABOUT THE WHAT COULD
BE DONE ABOUT THE SIDEWALKS
THIS EVENING.
>> WELL THAT WAS JUST MY
COMMENT.
>> THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
THANK THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
KELLY.
WE DO APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR THAT AMAZING
REPORT.
I'D LIKE TO MOVE FORWARD IN OUR
AGENDA WITH THE PRESENTATION OR
THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE
BLIND AND PHYSICALLY DISABLED
WITH KATIE MCKEVITT TO KATIE,
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
PATIENCE AND GOOD AFTERNOON.
OH YEAH.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
AND EVERYTHING'S BEEN SO
INTERESTING TO LISTEN TO SO
IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE HERE AND
HEAR ABOUT ALL OF THE PLANNING
THAT'S GOING ON.
IT'S VERY COOL.
SO HAPPY TO SIT THROUGH IT.
I DO HAVE SOME UPCOMING EVENTS
AT THE LIBRARY TO TELL YOU
ABOUT.
OF COURSE FIRST RIGHT NOW I AM
CURRENTLY PLANNING FOR VISION
SO THAT'S WHAT I'LL BE TALKING
ABOUT FOR A LITTLE BIT HERE WE
HAVE VISIONS TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
COMING UP ON JUNE 5TH.
THAT IS FROM 11:00 TO 4:00 P.M.
IT'S A WEDNESDAY AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
THIS IS A VENDOR AFFAIR THAT
FEATURES A VARIETY
OF EXHIBITORS WHO WILL
DEMONSTRATE THE LATEST PRODUCTS
AND SERVICES FOR THE BLIND,
VISUALLY IMPAIRED AND
PHYSICALLY DISABLED THINGS LIKE
ELECTRONIC READERS MAGNIFIERS
SUPPORT SERVICES FOR THE BLIND
BRAILLE DEVICES, LIBRARY
SERVICES AND CCTV LEADER DOGS
AND TRANSPORTATION AND SERVICES
ARE JUST A FEW OF THE MONEY
ELTING SERVICES AND PRODUCTS
THAT WILL BE ON DISPLAY.
WE ALSO HAVE PRESENTATIONS
THROUGHOUT THE DAY OFFERED ON
TOPICS RELATED TO VISION HEALTH
SERVICES AND ASSISTIVE
TECHNOLOGY.
WE ACTUALLY DO HAVE OUR
PRESENTATION SCHEDULE.
I'M GOING TO TELL YOU BRIEFLY
ABOUT THAT AT 12:00 P.M. WE
HAVE THE MYSHKIN BUREAU
OF SERVICES FOR THE BLIND
COMING TO TALK ABOUT THEIR
SERVICES.
THEN AT 1:00 P.M. WE HAVE THE
IP HOWARD VISUAL ASSISTIVE
TECHNOLOGIES PRESENTATION FROM
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
HUMAN AI LAB.
I'M VERY EXCITED
TO SEE THAT
ONE.
IT SHOULD BE REALLY INTERESTING
AT TWO P.M. WE'LL HAVE A
TECHNOLOGY TALK BY SOMEBODY YOU
MAY HAVE HEARD OF BEFORE JJ
MADDAH HE'S FROM THE EIGHT GUYS
HE HAS BEEN AT VISIONS IN THE
PAST AND THEN FINALLY THE DAY
WITH A LITTLE ASSISTIVE TECH
APP ROUND UP JUST ME AND SOME
OF THE FOLKS FROM THE LIBRARY
TALKING ABOUT OUR FAVORITE APPS
AND HOPING TO GET SOME FEEDBACK
FROM OTHER FOLKS ON THEIRS.
SO WE HOPE THAT YOU JOIN US AND
THERE IS A FULL VENDOR LIST
AVAILABLE NOW ON OUR WEBSITE AT
EIGHT ELGA VISIONS.
SO CHECK THAT OUT OR GIVE US A
CALL IF YOU WANT TO HEAR MORE
AT WE ALSO HAVE AN EXHIBIT
GOING ON RIGHT NOW.
THIS IS OUR BRAILLE ENHANCED
STORY WALK.
THIS IS ACTUALLY BEING HELD OUT
AT HIGH POINT SCHOOL WHICH IS
AT ONE SEVEN THREE FIVE SOUTH
WAGNER ROAD.
SO IT'S A BIT OF A PARTNERSHIP
AND THIS IS THIS WE PUT THIS
EXHIBIT UP ON APRIL 1ST AND
IT'S GOING TO BE THERE UNTIL
TUESDAY, APRIL 30TH.
SO IT'S CURRENTLY AVAILABLE FOR
YOU GO GO WALK THROUGH THE
ENHANCED STORY FEATURES LORI
DEADMAN'S BUT JUST READ IN
BRAILLE AND PRINT FOR YOUNG
READERS AND FAMILIES TO ENJOY.
IT'S AN INTERACTIVE EXHIBIT.
IT'S INSTALLED AROUND THE
ACCESSIBLE TRAIL AT THE HIGH
POINT SCHOOL.
SO IT'S A NICE PAVED TRAIL.
I'VE BEEN OUT THERE A COUPLE
OF TIMES.
IT'S A VERY BEAUTIFUL PLACE TO
GO AND HANG OUT AND THIS STORY
WALK HAS PROVIDED US BY THE
INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND LIBRARY
SERVICES WHICH IS ADMINISTERED
BY THE LIBRARY OF MICHIGAN.
SO WE'VE GOT IT ON LOAN FROM
THEM RIGHT NOW.
WE'RE ACTUALLY HOPING TO DO
SOMETHING A LITTLE BIT EASIER
BUT THIS IS SORT OF OUR FIRST
STEP SO WE HOPE THAT YOU GO
CHECK IT OUT.
AND THEN THE LAST EVENT I'M
GOING TO TALK ABOUT IS CALLED
ALL ABOUT BRAILLE.
THIS IS GOING TO BE HELD THIS
UPCOMING SATURDAY FROM ONE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY AND SECRET LAB
AND THIS EVENT IS ACTUALLY FOR
PRESCHOOLERS TO GRADE FIVE.
COULD NOT REALLY PROMOTE THAT
TO YOU A GROUP OF ADULTS BUT
MAYBE YOU HAVE SOME KIDS IN
YOUR LIFE WHO WOULD ENJOY IT
AND I'M SELFISHLY HOSTING THIS
EVENT SO I THOUGHT I PUT A
LITTLE PLUG IN BUT WE ARE
INVITING PEOPLE TO JOIN US AS
WE EXPLORE THE REAL ALPHABET
AND OTHER TACTILE MEANS
OF COMMUNICATION.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE LATE WITH
STYLUSES TO WRITE IN BRAILLE.
WE'VE GOT BRAILLE CRAFTS.
WE'VE GOT TACTILE COLORING
SHEETS WHICH I'M SUPER EXCITED
ABOUT AND LOTS MORE THINGS
EXPLORE AND DOVE INTO THAT
BRAILLE AND TACTILE WORLD SO
EXCITED ABOUT THAT THIS
FEATURING OUR MATERIALS AS WELL
AS USUAL OUR PATRONS KIND
OF OLDER DIGITAL CARTRIDGES BY
CALLING US THE PHONE NUMBER IS
SEVEN THREE FOUR THREE TWO
SEVEN FOUR TWO TWO FOUR.
>> CALL US THERE WITH ANY OTHER
INFORMATION NEEDS AS WELL OR
YOU CAN ALWAYS EMAIL US W L B P
D AT A A DRL DOT ORG WE
ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO SIGN UP FOR
THE BRAILLE AND AUDIO READING
SERVICE CALLED BAAD.
YOU CAN DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN
BOOKS, YOU CAN VISIT THEIR
WEBSITE SPADA LLC DOT GOV OR
JUST CALL US AND WE CAN ASSIST
WITH THE APPLICATION OVER THE
PHONE.
A COUPLE COOL BOOKS THAT I
FOUND ON BAR THIS MONTH
INVISIBLE INVISIBLE DISABILITY
LIVING WITH MACULAR
DEGENERATION BY CHRISTINE
MERIDAN MOYER MACULAR
DEGENERATION AFFECTS OVER EIGHT
MILLION PEOPLE STATES PATIENTS
LOSE CENTRAL VISION THE ABILITY
TO READ FINE PRINT AND
RECOGNIZE FACES A DIAGNOSIS
DOESN'T MEAN SURRENDERING TO
THESE CHALLENGES INSTEAD
UNDERSTANDING THIS MEDICAL
CONDITION PAVE THE WAY TOWARDS
A BETTER FUTURE FOR YOURSELF.
INVISIBLE INVISIBLE DISABILITY
LIVING WITH MACULAR
DEGENERATION IS UNIQUELY
WRITTEN FROM THE PERSPECTIVE
OF BOTH A PATIENT AND
SCIENTIST.
CHRISTINE DIERMEIER SHARES HER
JOURNEY WITH MACULAR
DEGENERATION GIVING A FIRST
HAND ACCOUNT DIAGNOSIS, LIVING
WITH VISION LOSS AND EXPLAINING
HOW THIS DISEASE AFFECTS SOCIAL
EMOTIONAL WELL-BEING.
YOUR MIND WILL OPEN THROUGH
THIS RAW AND HONEST.
CHRISTINE WANTS OTHERS TO KNOW
THAT YOU'RE ALONE AND DEALING
THE DISTINCT CHALLENGES
OF MACULAR DEGENERATION AND
OFFERS STRAIGHTFORWARD TIPS ON
COPING IN EVERY STAGE.
OK, AND THEN THE LAST ONE IS
MEDGER AND MERLY MEDGAR EVERS
AND THE LOVE STORY THAT
AWAKENED AMERICA BY JOY AND
READ TRACING THE EXTRAORDINARY
LIVES AND LEGACY OF TWO CIVIL
RIGHTS ICONS THIS GRIPPING
ACCOUNT OF MEDGAR AND MYRLIE
EVERS IS TOLD THROUGH THEIR
RELATIONSHIP AND THE WORK THAT
WENT INTO WINNING BASIC RIGHTS
FOR BLACK AMERICANS AND THE
REPERCUSSIONS THAT STILL
RESONATE TODAY.
>> AND THAT IS ALL THAT I HAVE
FOR YOU FOLKS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS FOR ME
THAT I FIRST OF ALL, AS ALWAYS
AMAZING ALL THE THINGS THAT THE
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY IS
DOING REALLY, REALLY WONDERFUL
STUFF.
I DID WANT TO POINT OUT AND I
DON'T WANT TO SPEAK FOR OUR
COMMISSIONER BUT WE DID EDIT AN
INQUIRY FOR AN ADDITIONAL
VOLUNTEER AT VISIONS.
I KNOW THAT THERE WAS ONLY
SPACE ON THE INITIAL
APPLICATION FOR FOR FOR
APPLICANTS WHICH WE DO HAVE AT
OUR TABLE.
BUT COMMISSIONER BEWES, I
WANTED TO GIVE YOU AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK BECAUSE I
WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW NO ONE I
SAW YOUR INQUIRIES.
I DIDN'T FORGET ABOUT YOU,
KATIE, CAN WE ADD MORE TO OUR
TABLE AS A YEAH, YOU'RE
OF COURSE WELCOME TO COME.
>> OK, AND SO DOES SHE HAVE TO
PROVIDE YOU WITH ANY ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION?
>> YEAH.
WHY DON'T YOU JUST SHOOT ME AN
EMAIL WITH YOUR NAME AND THEN I
KNOW THAT WE ORDERED A COUPLE
OF EXTRA LUNCHES FOR OUR VENDOR
SO WE SHOULD BE GOOD THERE.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH ABUSED YOU
HAVE ANYTHING ELSE FOR KATIE OR
OR ABOUT VISIONS NOW.
>> OK, WELL EXCITED TO SEE YOU
THERE.
OK ROB YOU HAD YEP.
>> THANK YOU.
I'M OFF THE TWO THINGS.
ONE I WILL BE AT VISIONS AND
HEY DOES THIS MEAN THAT WE GET
THE TABLE WE GET TO YEAH RIGHT
IT'S A BUT THAT'S BONUS FOR OUR
VENDORS ALTHOUGH I DID GUYS I
FOUND OUT JUST TODAY THAT WE
WILL HAVE A HOT DOG CART
SELLING HOT DOGS SO THAT'S
GOOD.
>> GOOD CARE TO HAVE THAT LAST
YEAR SO YOU MAY WANT THAT
INSTEAD OF YOUR LUNCH MAYBE
SAVE THE LUNCH FOR THE NEXT
DAY.
I'M THINKING ABOUT DOING THAT.
>> I'M THINKING ABOUT DOING
BOTH.
I GET HUNGRY.
I SAY THERE ARE LOTS OF THAT.
THAT'S INTERESTING BECAUSE LAST
YEAR I WAS GOING TO MENTION
THAT BECAUSE LAST YEAR THEY HAD
THE HAMBURGER TRUCK OUT THERE
AND THEY DIDN'T TAKE CASH AND A
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE NOT VERY
HAPPY THAT WE GOT SOME
COMPLAINTS ABOUT THAT ONE WITH
SOME WITH SOME VERY STRONG
EMPHASIS ON PLEASE BRING BACK
THE HOT DOGS SO I WAS SO
EXCITED TO GET THE EMAIL TODAY
THAT WE'VE DONE THAT SO SHOULD
BE GOOD, LARRY.
I THINK I COULD THINK
OF SOMETHING.
>> YEAH.
IF THERE WAS ONE OTHER THING
WHEN ONE IS WHAT IS THE REAL
THING AGAIN AND WHEN IS SO THE
TWO EVENTS THE BRIL ENHANCED
STORY WHAT EXHIBIT IS UP A HIGH
POINT SCHOOL UNTIL APRIL 30TH
BUT THE ALL OK FOR KIDS IS ON
SATURDAY.
>> THIS SATURDAY YEAH.
OH WOW I WAS GOING TO SAY AND
WHERE'S THAT AT IS HIGH POINT
TO IT'S WHAT TIME DOES THAT GO
FROM ONE TO TWO SO ALL RIGHT IF
YOU IF YOU HAPPEN TO NEED HELP
WITH THAT OR ANYTHING IF YOU IF
YOU NEED SOME HELP WITH THAT OR
NEED SOMEBODY I'M A I MY
COMMENT WAS GOING TO BE I'M
VERY PLEASED THAT BRAIL BEING
INTRODUCED TO A LOT BECAUSE
IT'S BECOMING A LOST DEAL AMONG
ESPECIALLY THE VISUALLY
IMPAIRED INDIVIDUALS DON'T
BOTHER BECAUSE OF ALL YOU KNOW
WE CAN READ THE BARD AND ALL
THAT SO A LOT OF THEM DULL
STUFF AND I DO KNOW BRAILLE
QUITE WELL.
I READ IT AND I'M THINKING IF
YOU HAVE ANY IF YOU NEED ANY
EXTRA HELP WITH THAT OR
ANYTHING IN THE NEXT COUPLE
OF DAYS YOU COULD LET ME KNOW
IF YOU CHOOSE.
>> OK, THANKS TO THE I AND
VOLUNTEER POINTED OUT WELL I'M
STILL AVAILABLE.
>> DOES WELL IS VERY NICE TO
KNOW A BRAILLE READER THAT IS
FOR SURE BECAUSE YOU'RE RIGHT
YOU'RE RARE THESE DAYS.
THAT'S RIGHT.
I'VE BEEN DOING IT FOR FIFTY
YEARS SO THAT'S AWESOME.
>> MISSIONER PACKARDS FIFTY
YEARS YOU'LL BE THE OLDEST KID
THERE.
I'LL BE GLAD TO JOIN YOU AS
WELL SO IF YOU'RE GOING FEEL
FREE TO LET ME YOU ALMOST LOST
ME ON YOUR PRESENTATION WITH
THE INVISIBLE DISABILITY
BECAUSE I WANTED TO RUSH OVER
TO MY BAR APP AND DOWNLOAD THE
BOOK RIGHT AWAY BUT I'LL BE
RECOMMENDING THAT TO SOME OF MY
FRIENDS.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE A GREAT BOOK.
>> OH YEAH I THINK SO YEAH.
OH YEAH.
THOSE ARE AMAZING.
AND JUST TO BACK YOU UP AND
LARRY AS WELL WITH WITH BRAILLE
IT DOES SOUND INTIMIDATING BUT
I TOOK ELEVATOR BRAILLE AND
JUST TO FIND THE FIRST TEN
LETTERS OF THE ALPHABET WHICH
CORRESPOND WITH THE FIRST TEN
NUMBERS ZERO THROUGH NINE
YOU'RE ABLE TO DO SO MUCH JUST
KNOWING THOSE FIRST TEN SYMBOLS
SO YOU KNOW IT CAN SOUND
INTIMIDATING BUT BRAILLE IS
HELPFUL TO ESPECIALLY
YOUNGSTERS SO YEAH THAT'S SO
COOL
.
I'VE ACTUALLY YOU KNOW, I'VE
BEEN AROUND A LOT BUT I DON'T
KNOW THAT I'VE EVER HEARD THE
TERM ELEVATOR BRAILLE BEFORE SO
THAT'S A REALLY INTERESTING
CONCEPT THAT I'M GOING TO LOOK
INTO THAT A LITTLE MORE SO
THANK YOU.
>> OH YEAH IT WAS INTIMIDATING
THAT WAS THAT WELL YEAH THANKS
.
>> OH IN THE BSP VISIONS WHAT
DATE IS THAT AGAIN IF YOU DON'T
THAT THAT IS GOING TO BE ON
JUNE 5TH IT'S A WEDNESDAY AND
THE BSB PRESENTATION IS AT NOON
.
>> OK THANK YOU.
I LOVE TO BE THERE FOR THAT AS
WELL.
THANK YOU FOR DAMON.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I JUST WANTED TO PUT THIS OUT
TO THE COMMISSION BY THE WAY.
YOU KNOW I'M EXCITED TO BE
THERE BUT I WANTED TO JUST LET
THE COMMISSION KNOW THAT IF
ANYONE CAN SHOW UP TO HELP LIKE
PHYSICALLY SET UP OUR TABLE AND
THEN BE THERE TO HELP
PHYSICALLY BREAK IT DOWN, THAT
WOULD BE VERY, VERY HELPFUL
BECAUSE THE PHYSICAL PORTION
OF IT CAN BE CHALLENGING TO DO
SO IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
COMMISSION THAT CAN HELP WITH
THE PHYSICAL SET UP OF THE
TABLE AND ALL THAT, THAT WOULD
BE GREAT KENENDY YOU AND I WILL
TALK OFFLINE.
I THINK WE STILL HAVE A SIGN
AND LIKE SOME STUFF FOR OUR
TABLE I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT'S STILL THE CITY AND
COORDINATE YOU KNOW HOW WE'RE
GOING TO GET THAT WE LOOK A
LITTLE BIT OF TIME WITH THAT SO
AND WE TRY FOR CARDS THAT I
THINK WE STILL HAD BRAIL
COMMISSION THINGS TO YEAH I
THINK I THINK WE MIGHT SO I
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE WE HAVE
ALL OF OUR STUFF AND THEN THE
ADEQUATE YOU HELP TO HELP SET
UP AND BREAK DOWN THE TABLE FOR
VISION'S SO ABSOLUTELY.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH KATIE.
>> ANYTHING ELSE FOR KATIE OR
NOT FOR KATIE BUT JUST TO SAY I
CAN HELP WITH SET UP BUT I DO I
HAVE TO LEAVE LIKE TWO THIRTY
SO GOT IT.
OK, THANK YOU LAURIE.
ALL I'LL NOTE THAT AND THEN AS
THE EVENT GETS CLOSER I'LL
PROBABLY SEND A COMMISSION
EMAIL JUST SAYING HEY THANK YOU
EVERYONE FOR WHO IS WILLING TO
HELP SET UP ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONER WHO ARE WILLING TO
LIKE HELP BREAK DOWN AT THE END
OF THE DAY THINGS LIKE THAT.
I'M PLANNING ON BEING THERE
MOST OF THE DAY PENDING MY
SCHEDULE IF ANYTHING DOESN'T
POP UP BETWEEN NOW NOW
ENVISIONED BUT I DO PLAN ON
BEING THERE MOST OF THE DAY IF
NOT THE ENTIRE TIME.
>> OK, THANK YOU KATIE AND
THANK YOU EVERYONE AT THE
LIBRARY FOR ALL THAT YOU DO.
>> OH YOU'RE SO WELCOME AND
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
ME.
ABSOLUTELY.
I NEXT WE HAVE THE REPORT WITH
THE DISABILITY NETWORK
WASHTENAW MUNNERLYN AND
LIVINGSTON WITH ANDREA ANDREA,
THANK YOU.
HAPPY REANEY WEDNESDAY
EVERYBODY.
WHY DON'T YOU JUST HIGHLIGHT A
COUPLE OF THINGS QUICKLY ONE
THAT'S COMING UP RELATIVELY
QUICKLY NEXT MONTH ON FRIDAY,
MAY 10TH IS A TOTALLY RAD
NINETIES SPRING FLING YOUTH AND
YOUNG DANCE BE ON FRIDAY, MAY
10TH FROM SIX TO EIGHT PM AT
OUR ANN ARBOR LOCATION FOR
YOUTH AND YOUNG ADULTS AGES 14
TO TWENTY SIX ALONG WITH
OPPORTUNITY FOR A PARENT OR
GUARDIAN OR A SUPPORT PERSON TO
ALSO ATTEND THE EVENT IS FREE
REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED.
YOU CAN LEARN MORE BY
CONTACTING OUR OFFICE SEVEN
THREE FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE ZERO
TWO SEVEN SEVEN OR CONTACTING
THE EVENT COORDINATOR DIRECTLY
.
HER NAME IS CHRISTINA.
IT'S K R Y S T.
I AM A AT D AND W MELLBERG.
THEY CAN HELP GET YOU
REGISTERED TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE AND
THEN WANTED TO OF COURSE BRING
TO YOUR ATTENTION THAT WE WILL
AGAIN THIS YEAR BE CELEBRATING
THE THIRTY FOURTH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT.
WE WILL BE DOING SO ON THE
ANNIVERSARY DATE WHICH IS
FRIDAY JULY TWENTY SIXTH FROM
THREE TO SEVEN P.M. AGAIN AND
OUR IN OUR RELOCATION FOOD
DRINKS SPEAKERS TIDEY STATION
RAFFLE ITEMS AN ART EXHIBITION
CRAFTS THE SAME STATION
ADAPTIVE SPORTS COMMUNITY AND
TABLES PRIZES AND MORE
HOPEFULLY WITHOUT MOTHER
NATURE'S ASSISTANCE THIS YEAR
SUCHI RUDELY INVITED HERSELF A
YEAR AGO BUT WANTED TO GET THAT
ALL ON YOUR CALENDARS AND IT IS
OPEN HOUSE STYLE.
SO AGAIN, ANY TIME DURING THAT
DURING THAT FOUR HOUR BLOCK
OF THREE TO SEVEN P.M. ON
FRIDAY JULY TWENTY SIXTH AT OUR
AND OUR OFFICE FOR THE EIGHTY
EIGHT CELEBRATION THAT'S ALL I
HAVE TODAY FOR THE COMMISSION
UNLESS THEY HAVE ANY QUESTION.
THANK YOU SO YES PLEASE ANDREA
AND ALL THE STAFF THERE PLEASE
KEEP IN TOUCH ABOUT THE ADA
CELEBRATION.
I'M HOPING THAT ALL OF US ON
THE COMMISSION CAN BE THERE TO
SUPPORT IT AND SUPPORT IT AHEAD
OF TIME LEADING UP TO HELP
PROMOTE THAT SO THAT THERE CAN
BE GREAT ATTENDANCE.
I LOVE ATTENDING THAT EVENT.
YOU KNOW YOU GUYS DO SUCH A
WONDERFUL JOB AND AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO IT THIS YEAR.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO OUR NEXT REPORT WE
HAVE E PARTNERS ACCESS
COMMITTEE REPORT WITH LARRY
KING ALL UP ON OUR SPECIAL
REPORT WASN'T VERY WE HAD A
MEETING BUT IT WAS JUST ME AND
I'M SORRY BUT I PRONOUNCE YOUR
NAME PROPERLY.
I'VE GOT TO CALL YOU
COMMISSIONER.
IS THAT ALL RIGHT?
>> YES, DEFINITELY OK, WELL I
DO WANT TO MAKE SURE I GET IT
RIGHT AND WE JUST DISCUSSED YOU
KNOW, THERE WAS NO NO NEW
UPDATES TO ANY OF THE BUSINESS
THAT'S BEEN SITTING AROUND WITH
US WITH THE THE PARKING AREAS
AND THE MICHIGAN THEATER.
WE HADN'T HAD ANY UPDATES BUT
COMMISSIONER SAM PUT FORTH I
GAVE HIM A BRIEF OVERVIEW
OF WHAT WE DO AS PP AND WE
ALSO SO WE DISCUSSED A COUPLE
OF THINGS WE DISCUSSED THIS
IDEA OF GETTING OFF TRYING TO
GET GOVERNMENT AUDITS ON SOME
OF THE WORK FOR THE
ACCESSIBILITY TO MAKE SOME
OF THE GOVERNMENT WEBSITES MORE
ACCESSIBILITY IS HE ALSO
PROPOSED TO MAKE AN ACCESSIBLE
LIST FOR A LOT OF PLACES AS
LITTLE FOR DOWNTOWN SO YOU CAN
LOOK UP LIKE LET'S SAY YOU WANT
TO GO TO THE PRINCE OF BEL AND
YOU WANT TO GO AND SEE IF IT'S
ACCESSIBLE.
YOU CAN LOOK IT UP ONLINE ON A
WEBSITE AND LOOK AND SEE HOW
ACCESSIBLE THEY ARE AND THAT
KIND OF THING.
SO IF I HAVE MR. SAM LET'S TALK
ABOUT IT.
>> I CAN LET HIM HAVE THE FLOOR
THERE.
BUT THAT'S ALL WE'VE DONE.
>> THAT'S WHAT I'VE GOT.
I'M SO IT'S A GO AHEAD.
>> YEAH, SURE.
NO, I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY
IT'S COMMISSIONER AND OVER
HERE.
OH YEAH WE WERE JUST TALKING
ABOUT THIS IT WAS AN IDEA THAT
I THINK I MAY HAVE BROUGHT UP
FIRST THE FIRST TIME I WAS
INTRODUCED TO THE COMMISSION
ABOUT KIND OF CREATING A PRETTY
EASY LIKE EXCEL SPREADSHEET
KIND OF LIST OF ACCESSIBILITY
IN TERMS OF LIKE MAYBE BLIND
AND LOW VISION DEAF HARD
OF HEARING MOBILITY AND OTHER
FORMS OF ACCESSIBILITY HAVING
JUST A KIND OF A MASTER
DOCUMENT LIST OF DIFFERENT
ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES
OF DIFFERENT BUSINESSES
DOWNTOWN.
MAYBE IT COULD START WITH ONE
STREET AND SEE HOW IT GOES OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND THEN AS
A DOCUMENT IT WOULD BE PRETTY
EASY FOR A PERSON TO PERUSE AND
SAY OK, I WAS WONDERING IF THEY
HAVE, YOU KNOW, HEARING LOOPS
FOR HEARING AIDS OR ASSISTED
LISTENING DEVICES OR I WAS
WONDERING IF THERE WAS
ACCESSIBLE SEATING IF I NEED TO
CALL AHEAD FOR ACCESSIBLE
SEATING AND YOU KNOW, IT WOULD
BE FINE IF I WOULD BE WILLING
TO COMMUNICATE WITH DIFFERENT
BUSINESSES AND TRY TO SET IT UP
AND MAYBE HAVE THEIR PHONE
NUMBERS LISTED AS WELL IN CASE
THEY DON'T HAVE THE KIND
OF INFORMATION YOU'RE LOOKING
FOR, YOU COULD GIVE THEM A CALL
OR SOME SUCH THING.
>> THAT'S THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
YEAH.
GREAT.
THANK YOU FOR THE PARTNERSHIPS
AND ACCESS COMMITTEE, LARRY.
AND SAM, THANK YOU FOR THAT
REPORT.
HAPPY TO TO TO ASSIST IN ANY
WAY WITH THAT AS YOU GUYS
PROGRESS.
I THINK THAT'S A PRETTY
FASCINATING COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE, WAIT FOR US.
I DON'T REMEMBER IF THEY DID IT
IN DETROIT BUT I DO THINK THAT
I VAGUELY REMEMBER AN
ORGANIZATION IN GRAND RAPIDS
THAT DOES THIS WITH SOME OF THE
BUSINESSES THERE.
>> HAVE YOU HEARD OF THEM KNOW
DO YOU HAPPEN TO KNOW THE NAME
?
>> I DON'T.
BUT I CAN I CAN EMAIL IT TO
YOU.
>> I WAS IN A PRESENTATION AND
THEY HAD THEY HAD TALKED
ABOUT
IT.
>> THEY CALLED ME I WENT FROM
COMPANY.
>> OH, I'M SORRY.
WHAT WAS THAT IS CALLED ABLE
VIEWERS THAT A DIFFERENT
COMPANY I DON'T KNOW.
IT WAS IT WAS ACTUALLY MY
TRANSPORTATION PRESENTATION
ABOUT ABOUT AVY AUTONOMOUS
VEHICLES BUT A PERSON WAS WHO
WAS SPEAKING WAS FROM THE GRAND
RAPIDS AREA SO I'D HAVE TO GO
BACK AND LOOK BUT THEY HAD
SPECIFICALLY DISCUSSED DOING
THOSE KINDS OF OF AUDIT.
I THOUGHT I HEARD SOME ABOUT IT
TOO VAGUELY IN THE WIND.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO THE
NEXT MEETING OF COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT I KENNEDY I DON'T
BELIEVE WE HAVE COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS IS EVEN CORRECT.
>> COMMISSIONER HAWKINS IS NOT
PRESENT.
SO THE NEXT ONE WOULD BE
RECRUITING ACTIVITY.
>> ALL RIGHT.
RECRUITING LARRY KEELER.
OK, GO AHEAD.
THAT WOULD BE NEAT ANYWAY.
AND FOR THE FIRST TIME
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT RACHEL DID
NOT APPEAR SO I WOULD HAVE
NOTHING FROM THAT I COULD SPEAK
TO HER EITHER AND WITHOUT
RECRUITING ACTIVITY ACTUALLY I
HAVEN'T RECEIVED OR SEEN ANY
APPLICATIONS COME THROUGH THERE
REALLY HASN'T BEEN A LOT DONE
THERE THIS MONTH BUT ANY IF
ANYBODY WANTS TO PUT IN AN
APPLICATION YOU CAN DO THAT ON
YOU CAN GO TO BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS AND FIND
APPLICATION THERE AND PRESENT.
>> WHAT WAS IT FOR YOU?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
JUST SO YOU KNOW, DON'T GO
ANYWHERE PLEASE BECAUSE NOW I'M
RIGHT HERE WE HAVE A QUESTION
FROM COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ.
>> OH, THANK LARRY HAD
MENTIONED THAT THERE WASN'T A
LOT OF HI LARRY.
YOU HAD MENTIONED THERE WASN'T
A LOT OF RECRUITING WORK.
I'M WONDERING WE'RE AT FULL
CAPACITY OR DO WE HAVE AN OPEN
POSITION FINALLY WE HAVE OPEN
VACANCIES SO WE ARE FULL
COMMISSION.
>> THANK YOU, CANDY.
BOB.
BUT THEN THEN ALL OF OUR
RECRUITING ACTIVITIES THOUGH
AND I THINK THIS WOULD COME
PARTLY TO RECRUITING AS WELL AS
OUR TABLE AT THE VISION AND I
THINK THAT WOULD COME UNDER
THAT AND I THINK LATER ON WE
SHOULD WHOEVER IS GOING TO
VOLUNTEER SHOULD MEET OUR TALK
AND COME UP WITH ONE.
>> WE'RE GOING TO BE THE ONE
WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE THERE AND
BY MAYBE NEXT MONTH WE CAN MAKE
THAT A SUBJECT WE CAN YOU KNOW,
JUST SO WE'RE ORGANIZED SO ALL
OF US DON'T SHOW UP AT ONCE AND
LEAVE AT ONCE, YOU KNOW?
>> YEAH.
NO, I WASN'T TRYING TO INFER
THAT THERE SHOULD NOT BE ANY
ACTIVITY GOING ON.
WHAT I WAS TRYING TO ASK WAS IS
IF WE RUN INTO PEOPLE WHO ARE
INTERESTED IT WOULD BE HELPFUL
TO BE ABLE TO TELL THEM THERE
IS NOT CURRENTLY A POSITION BUT
PLEASE PUT YOUR NAME IN JUST IN
CASE ONE BECOMES AVAILABLE
RATHER THAN WHEN WE HAVE AN
OPEN ONE.
WE'RE A LOT MORE ACTIVE, YOU
KNOW WHAT I'M SAYING?
>> I JUST WANTED TO KNOW WHAT
LEVEL OF OF URGENCY DID WE NEED
WHEN WE'RE LOOKING AT
CANDIDATES.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THAT.
DECIDED TO PUT ASIDE TO PUT
THAT SOMETHING DIFFERENT
FORWARD.
I MEAN JUST SINCE I HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY I WANTED TO MENTION
THE OTHER PART SO I KNOW YOU'RE
GOOD.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M MOVING ON.
WE HAVE THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UPDATE WITH LARRY
KEELER BUT I DON'T I WAS THERE
BUT I DON'T HAVE A LOT ON THERE
BECAUSE A LOT THAT WAS
REPORTED.
BUT WE DID TALK ABOUT
RESURFACING RESURFACING
ESPECIALLY PAGE THREE WHICH I'M
NOT EXACTLY SURE WHERE IT'S AT
BUT I THINK IT'S OFF A PACKARD
SOMEWHERE.
BUT THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT
RESEARCHING PAGE YOU HAVE
RESURFACING IT AND MAKING YOU
KNOW, PUTTING SOME THINGS IN
THERE LIKE SPEED BUMPS AND
WHATNOT TO SLOW DOWN TRAFFIC
GOING THROUGH THAT AREA AND
THEY'RE ALSO THINKING ABOUT
PUTTING IN AT LEAST ONE
SIDEWALK.
>> A BUDGET SAYS THEY CAN'T PUT
IT BOTH BUT EVENTUALLY THEY
WANT TO PUT IN BOTH AND THEN
AND THEY WANT TO REMOVE PARKING
ON THAT STREET BECAUSE A LOT
OF PEOPLE LIKE TO PARK THERE
APPARENTLY AND THE RESURFACING
REPORT PASSED.
>> IT WAS PRESENTED AND PASSED
AND THEN THERE WAS A AND I
DON'T KNOW YOU COULD PROBABLY
FIND THIS ON THE WHEN YOU GO
BACK TO THE MEETINGS WHEN YOU
GO BACK AND FIND A RECORDED
MEETING OR I IMAGINE I'LL PLAY
THE UPDATED MEETING AND YOU CAN
LISTEN TO THESE MEETINGS ON
SITTING AT 7:00 BUT THERE WAS A
BIG THING ABOUT DIFFERENT TYPES
OF SIGNALS LIKE DIFFERENT TYPES
OF OF CROSSWALKS SIGNALS APC'S
HAWK SIGNALS, JUST SIGNS AND
WHAT WAS THEM AND I I DIDN'T
GET EVERYTHING.
>> WHAT WAS THAT BECAUSE WELL
THERE WAS A LOT BUT I THINK I
THINK EVERYTHING WAS EXPLAINED
ABOUT CROSSWALKS IN THAT WHOLE
THING AND NOTHING NEW IN THE
UPDATE FROM ETA OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT.
AND I WILL MENTION AGAIN
TONIGHT THE THE SIDEWALK ISSUES
FROM THAT WERE HAPPENING UP
THERE WITH THE CROSSWALKS OR
NOT THE CROSSWALKS, THE
SIDEWALK ROSSINI'S WAS TALKING
ABOUT HAVING OBSTRUCTIONS ALL
OVER THEM.
IT WAS THE SIDE MORE IN WARD
THREE BY THE WAY.
>> RAVINIA WAS THE MOST
COMMONLY SEEN.
>> MOST COMMONLY IT'S AROUND
HALF OF WASHTENAW AVENUE LIKE
WHOLE FOODS AND DOLLAR TREE AND
KROGER'S BECAUSE THAT'S WHERE I
GOT IT.
>> I I KNOW I KNOW FROM
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE WE GOT IT.
>> YEAH.
AND ALSO IN SOME OF THE SIDE
STREETS IN THAT AREA, THE
ACTUAL RESIDENTIAL STREETS SOME
OF THEM ARE BEING LEFT THERE
AND YOU KNOW I DON'T I'M NOT A
FAN OF PUNITIVE MEASUREMENTS
FOR IT BUT I DO THINK THAT THE
CITY KIND OF NEEDS TO COME UP
WITH SOME SORT OF PLAN AS WE GO
MOVE MORE AND MORE TOWARDS
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION AND ACT
OF MOBILITY.
>> I WOULD AGREE WITH YOU I I'D
RATHER YOU TELL THE I'M VERY
FAMILIAR WITH IT SO DID YOU RUN
INTO ONE TWO BY MISTAKE AND
WHAT I DID I BELIEVE THAT AREA
SIR I GO ON AND OFF FOR YOU
KNOW, SEVERAL TIMES SINCE I WAS
YOUNG AND YEAH I HAVE DONE THAT
QUITE A BIT EVEN WITH THE
BECAUSE YOU PUT IT BACK ON ONE
SIDE AND COME UP ON THE OTHER
SIDE.
>> SO YEAH I'M REAL FAMILIAR
WITH IT AND THEY'RE JUST
ABANDONING THEM.
THEY'RE LIKE NOT EVEN ON THE
GRASS BUT LIKE ON THE SIDEWALK
IT'S ALL FOR BLOCKING THE THE
BUS SHELTER.
THE ENTRANCE TO THE BUS SHELTER
HAS BEEN BLOCKED BEFORE TOO BUT
THEY DO IT AROUND HERE TOO SO
OK YEAH EVEN LIKE SOMEONE THE
THE MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR
VERSION OF THE GROCERY CART
THAT GOT LEFT IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE SIDEWALK ONCE ALSO
MENTIONED YOUR MOTHER OK, I
JUST WANTED TO ADD TO THE
CONVERSATION BECAUSE I'M I'M
CURIOUS AS TO HOW ALL THIS WILL
PLAY OUT AND MY REASON FOR
SAYING THAT IS THE CARDS ARE
OWNED BY BUSINESSES THAT ARE
ARE PUBLICLY ARE PUBLICLY OWNED
OR NOT WITH THE CITY.
AND I KNOW THAT THE THE
SIDEWALKS ARE ON CITY PROPERTY
UNLESS IT'S OWNED BY M DOT OR
WHATEVER.
>> SO I WOULD BE INTERESTED TO
FIND OUT TYPE OF WHAT TYPE
OF INTERVENTION THE CITY COULD
EVEN DO AT ALL BECAUSE THESE
ARE OUR BUSINESSES YOU KNOW
WHAT I'M SAYING?
AND I DO ALSO KNOW THAT WHAT
THIS CONVERSATION IS PLAYING
INTO A SOMETHING IS NEAR AND
DEAR TO MY HEART WHICH IS
PUBLIC HOUSING AND FOLKS WHO
ARE MARGINAL IN LOW INCOME AND
A LOT OF TIMES THOSE CUTS ARE
BEING USED BY FOLKS WHO HAVE NO
OTHER WAY TO GET THEIR ITEMS
HOME.
SO I KNOW THAT THAT HAPPENS A
LOT AND I WOULD NOT WANT TO
PENALIZE OR IN ANY WAY HARM
FOLKS WHO ONLY HAVE CERTAIN
WAYS.
AND I KNOW THAT IT DOESN'T
SOUND WONDERFUL THAT SOMEBODY
WANTS TO TAKE A GROCERY CART
OFF GROCERY PROPERTY BUT WE
KNOW THAT IT HAPPENS ALL THE
TIME.
RIGHT.
ESPECIALLY THE KROGER ON
PLYMOUTH ROAD OVERBUY.
WHERE IS THAT?
THAT'S IT'S JUST NEAR NORTH
CAMPUS OVER THERE.
BUT THIS CONVERSATION I THINK
IS BIGGER THAN JUST THIS SIMPLE
THING THAT CARTS ARE IN THE WAY
IT'S A LOT BROADER AND I JUST
WANTED TO BRING THAT UP AND
ALSO FIND OUT HOW DO WE MOVE
FORWARD FROM HERE.
>> LET LET IS INTERESTING,
COMMISSIONER.
NO, I I COMPLETELY AGREE.
IT'S PART OF WHY I MADE SURE TO
BRING IT UP TO COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWYN PARTLY BECAUSE I
KNOW THAT SHE'S HELPED WITH YOU
KNOW, TALKING WITH OSFI ABOUT
CREATING BUCKBY PROGRAMS IN THE
PAST BUT ALSO LIKE I DIDN'T
WANT TO SAY HERE THAT BECAUSE I
DO KNOW THAT ONE OF THE WHO
LEFT OR POTENTIALLY WEARS WHO
SOME OF THE USERS ARE OF THESE
CARDS AND
I HOPE WAS THAT MAYBE
THERE IS SOMETHING THAT COULD
BE DONE WITH YOU KNOW, BECAUSE
SOME OF THE HOUSING IS ACTUALLY
OWNED BY THE CITY THAT IT COULD
BE WHERE THE CITY MIGHT PROVIDE
THEM WITH SOME TYPE OF KNOW
CART THEMSELVES IF THEY ARE
WITHIN PUBLIC HOUSING.
BUT SOME FOR SOME PEOPLE IT'S
NOT THAT IT'S NOT THAT THEY'RE
IN PUBLIC HOUSING.
IT'S JUST THAT IT'S A LOT
EASIER TO GET THE GROCERY CART
TO THE BUS STOP AND AN
ABANDONMENT AT THE BUS STOP AND
THEN, YOU KNOW, KIND OF MAKE IT
HOME.
AND SO IF THERE WERE LIKE A
BOOK BY PROGRAM OR SOMETHING TO
MAKE IT EASIER FOR THEM TO BE
ABLE TO GET A CART THAT YOU
WOULD NORMALLY HAVE HAD IN A
LARGER CITY THAN ANN ARBOR LIKE
IF YOU'RE IN D.C., BOSTON, NEW
YORK YOU MAY HAVE HAD ONE
OF THOSE WHILE AT THE OTHER END
OF IT TOO I SAID I'VE BEEN
INJURED TRIPPING OVER THOSE
THINGS SO I DON'T CARE WHETHER
YOU'RE HOMELESS OR NOT.
IF I PUT MY HEAD ON THE WATER
ALL AROUND THERE I DON'T CARE
WHO LEFT IT THERE OR WHY.
>> YEAH, NO IT IT'S JUST IT'S A
BIGGER ISSUE THAN JUST THAT
BECAUSE THERE ARE SYSTEMIC
ISSUES INVOLVED AS WELL.
I JUST LIKE I SAID I JUST
BROUGHT IT UP TO HER BECAUSE I
DIDN'T WANT IT TO BE MADE INTO
SOMETHING PUNITIVE AND IT IS
THE DOES BELONG TO THE YOU KNOW
TO THE PRIVATE BUSINESSES AND
INTERVIEWERS.
>> I'M JUST A COMMENT TO SAY
THAT THE BUSINESS STAKEHOLDERS
MAY ALSO HAVE INTEREST IN
COMING TO THE TABLE.
>> TALK ABOUT THIS.
THOSE SHOPPING CARTS ARE NOT
CHEAP AND I KNOW THAT THEY VERY
MUCH DON'T LIKE IT WHEN THEY
LEAVE PROPERTY AND IF I'M NOT
MISTAKEN, I DID SEE SIGNS
OF THE KROGER ON PLYMOUTH ROAD
THAT THEY WILL PROSECUTE AND SO
JUST THINKING THAT IT IS A IT
IS A VOLUNTARY PROBLEM THEN
THEN IT SEEMS ON THE SURFACE
AND THERE MAY BE OPPORTUNITY TO
INVOLVE SOME OF OUR OTHER
MEMBERS AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU.
EVERYONE WILL BE APPRECIATED IN
THE INTEREST OF TIME.
I'M SORRY WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH THE NEXT AGENDA
ITEM BUT I DO APPRECIATE THE
DIALOG ON THIS VERY IMPORTANT
TOPIC.
AND LARRY, I ENCOURAGE YOU
PLEASE KEEP US UPDATED ON THIS
AND IF IT CONTINUES TO RISING
ISSUE THEN THEN WE SHOULD
DISCUSS WHAT A GOOD COURSE
OF ACTION COULD BE NEXT WE HAVE
THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS MEETING
UPDATE.
I BELIEVE CANDIDATE
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON IS NOT
WITH US THIS EVENING.
>> COMMISSIONER SOLOMON IS NOT
PRESENT WITH US THIS EVENING.
HOWEVER, COMMISSIONER DID
PROVIDE THE MEETING MINUTES AND
THE PRESENTATIONS OF DOCUMENTS
AND THAT WAS SENT OUT TO THE
COMMISSION.
>> YES, I WAS JUST ABOUT TO SAY
THAT SO THANK YOU AND NO, I DID
ATTEND THE MEETING AS WELL BUT
I'LL LEAVE IT TO COMMISSIONER
MOSADDEQ TO GIVE THAT REPORT IF
THEY WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU
KNOW I'LL PASS I JUST I WASN'T
PREPARED TO GIVE A REPORT.
I JUST KNOW THAT IT WAS
IMPORTANT TO HAVE THE
DOCUMENTATION AND I HAD
RECEIVED IT SO I JUST SENT IT
ON SO I DON'T HAVE THAT FRESH
IN MY MIND.
>> ZACK SO YOU'RE YOU'RE FREE
TO GO.
OH GREAT.
WELL THANK YOU BOTH KENNEDY AND
KATHLEEN FOR YOUR ASSISTANCE ON
THAT.
SO I DID HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
ATTEND APRIL COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS MEETING AND
I HAVE TO TELL YOU THAT IT
CARINA MOORE, THE DEPUTY
DIRECTOR OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN OFFICE
OF UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS DID
ATTEND AND GAVE AND GAVE A
GREAT PRESENTATION SORT OF THE
OVERVIEW OF THE ADMISSIONS
OFFICE AND SORT OF THE SCOPE
OF THEIR WORK WHAT KIND OF WHAT
LOTTE'S ABILITY IS IN TERMS
OF RECRUITMENT AND ADMITTANCE
OF THE UNDERGRADUATE CLASS AND
THEN THEY WORK TO REACH OUT TO
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS AND THEIR
FAMILIES THROUGH EVENTS AND
DIFFERENT EMAILS AND DIFFERENT
THINGS AND YOU KNOW, THEY SERVE
OVER SIXTY THOUSAND BUSINESS
WORDS AND INFORMATION SESSIONS
AND THEN THEY HAVE ON CAMPUS
PROGRAMING AGAIN SELECTIVE AND
ADMITTED STUDENTS AND FAMILIES
.
AND SO THEY TALKED ABOUT SORT
OF THE APPLICATION REVIEW
PROCESS AND THAT THEY HAVE
RECEIVED CLOSE TO ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND APPLICATIONS AS
OF LAST YEAR FOR ADMISSION TO
THE UNIVERSITY MICHIGAN.
AGAIN, THEY TALKED A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT THE RECRUITMENT
PROCESS AND HOW THEY WORK WITH
STUDENTS WHO REACH OUT TO THEM
AND MOST ENGAGEMENT HAPPENS
THROUGH ON CAMPUS PROGRAM.
BUT THEY SAID THAT THEY DO
OFFER VIRTUAL AND RECORDED
INFORMATION SESSIONS AND
VIRTUAL LIVE Q&A AS WELL.
AND SO THEY ARE ALSO DO THEIR
BEST TO VISIT HIGH SCHOOLS IN
THE FALL AND THEIR GOAL IS TO
VISIT EVERY HIGH SCHOOL IN THE
STATE AT LEAST EVERY THIRD YEAR
.
SO FOR PROGRAMING AND THINGS
THAT THEY DO AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, THEY DO, YOU KNOW,
HAVE A RSVP THAT ASKS QUESTIONS
ABOUT ACCESSIBILITY TO ENSURE
EVERYONE WHO DOES RSVP TO THESE
EVENTS HAS THE ACCESSIBILITY
THAT THEY NEED AND THEY SAY
MOST OF THESE REQUIREMENTS ARE
FOR ASOL INTERPRETERS OR
INDIVIDUALS THAT HAVE
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBILITY.
SO I WAS GLAD TO HEAR THAT FOR
THE PROGRAMING THAT THEY DO.
YOU HAVE FOR PERSPECTIVE AND
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS THAT
THEY DO HAVE THAT ACCESSIBILITY
OPTION THERE.
LET'S SEE.
YEAH, AND THEN THEY JUST TALKED
THEY TALK A LOT ABOUT WHAT THEY
DO AT THE OFFICE
OF UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION.
THEY TALK ABOUT STEPS TO MAKE
THEIR OFFERINGS MORE ACCESSIBLE
AND SO THEY'RE GOING TO THEY
SAY THAT STUDENTS ARE YOU KNOW,
ARE ABLE TO ASK ABOUT IF THE
UNIVERSITY CAN PROVIDE ANY
ACCOMMODATIONS TO PARTICIPANTS
THAT MIGHT HAVE ANY DIETARY
RESTRICTIONS, WHEELCHAIR ACCESS
,PARKING ACCOMMODATIONS, ASL
INTERPRETATION CART SERVICES OR
CLOSED CAPTIONING OR LIMITED
TRAVEL AVAILABILITY AND YOU
HAVE OFFERS LIMITED TRAVEL
GRANT ACCESS WHICH ALLOWS FOR
STUDENTS WHO HAVE FINANCIAL
DIFFICULTIES TO VISIT WHICH
MEANS THEY CAN GIVE A GAS CARD
OR A BUS TICKET OR EVEN A ONE
NIGHT HOTEL STAY.
SO THEY ALSO TALKED ABOUT SOME
OF THE MOST COMMON KIND
OF ACCOMMODATION REQUESTS THAT
THEY GET FROM STUDENTS AND HOW
ARE THEY HANDLED BY THE
APARTMENT.
THEY SAID A LOT OF THE REQUESTS
THAT THEY GET IN TERMS
OF ACCESSIBILITY FOR
UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION EVENTS
IS DIETARY REQUESTS FOR
PROGRAMS THAT INCLUDE A MEAL
AND SO TO DO THIS THEY RUN
BASICALLY A SURVEY BY THE
PERSON WHO REQUESTS AN
ACCOMMODATION AND THEY HAVE
THAT PERSON KIND OF FURTHER
EXPLAIN WHAT THEIR DIETARY
NEEDS ARE TO CONFIRM THAT THEY
CAN SORT OF FULFILL THAT
REQUEST AHEAD OF TIME AND THEN
THEY RECEIVE A REQUEST FOR
EVERY EVENT THAT HAS A MEAL AND
THEY'RE ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE AS
FAR AS WHEELCHAIRS BASICALLY IF
THERE ARE IS A WHEELCHAIR
REQUEST THE UNIVERSITY OFFERS
SEVERAL WHEELCHAIRS THAT HAS
WHEELCHAIRS AT THE OPPOSITE
OFFICE OF ACCOMMODATIONS TO
ANYONE WHO NEEDS THEM AND THEY
ENCOURAGE FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
COMMUNICATE THAT IN ADVANCE.
THEY ALSO TALKED ABOUT
ACCESSIBLE PARKING AND THAT THE
UNIVERSITY OR PAY FOR
ACCESSIBLE PARKING FOR FAMILIES
WHO ARE VISITING IS ADMITTED
STUDENTS AND IT IS NOT PAID FOR
FOR NON ADMITTED VISITORS.
UNFORTUNATELY.
BUT THEY DO ALSO OFFER ASL
INTERPRETERS BY REQUEST AND
THEY SAID AS OF RIGHT NOW ONLY
TWO REQUESTS FOR INTERPRETERS
WERE FOR THE PAST YEAR FOR THE
UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION EVENTS
BUT THEY DO DO THEIR BEST TO
MAKE SURE THAT INTERPRETERS DO
ATTEND OTHER THAN THAT THEY
WERE ASKED ABOUT SOME DIFFERENT
ACCESSIBILITY RESOURCES AND
THEY TALKED ABOUT THE THE
ACCESSIBILITY OFFICE FOR
STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES AND
A BUNCH OF OTHER RESOURCES AS
WELL THAT THEY WANTED TO TALK
ABOUT THAT THE REST OF THAT IS
ALL IN THE COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS REPORT.
SO PLEASE FEEL FREE TO REVIEW
THAT.
BUT THAT IS A IN A NUTSHELL
WHAT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
COUNCIL FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS
PRESENTATION WAS FOR THE
UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS.
>> THANK YOU
, DAMON.
>> YOUR MUTED THANK YOU.
I'M MOVING FORWARD NOW WE HAVE
THE ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY
REPORT WITH OUR ADA COORDINATOR
TRACY BYRD.
>> TRACY, I'M SORRY I'M HAVING
SOME COMPUTER ISSUES TODAY AND
I DON'T HAVE A CAMERA.
THIS IS TRACY JUST TO LET YOU
KNOW I HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT
THIS MONTH.
NO PROBLEM.
BUT THANK YOU, TRACY, FOR ALL
OF YOUR WORK THAT YOU'RE DOING
AND PLEASE CONTINUE TO LET US
KNOW IF THE COMMISSION CAN
ASSIST YOU IN ANY WAY NEXT WE
HAVE THIS CITY PERSONNEL REPORT
WITH KENNEDY.
>> HELLO EVERYONE.
I ALSO HAVE NO REPORTS OR
UPDATES AT THIS TIME
.
ALL RIGHTY.
THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
I WANTED TO ACTUALLY WE'RE
MOVING TO THE GERALD FORD AND I
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT A MENTION
A LITTLE AT A STREET CLOSURE
RESOLUTION THAT WAS BROUGHT TO
MY ATTENTION BY OUR CITY ADA
ORDINATOR I WAS GRATEFUL THAT
THIS WAS BROUGHT TO MY
ATTENTION IN TERMS OF SOME
THINGS THAT YOU COULD BE, YOU
KNOW, BENEFICIAL TO THE
COMMISSION IN TERMS OF , YOU
KNOW, SOME WAYS IN WHICH WE CAN
KIND OF RECTIFY THIS.
I WANTED TO MENTION TO YOU THAT
THIS RESOLUTION TO KIND
OF APPROVE THE STREET CLOSURES
FOR RESTAURANT AND RETAIL USE
THIS WAS ACTUALLY PROPOSED IF
I'M CORRECT, TRACY, THIS WAS
SORT OF PROPOSED COVID AND THEN
IMPLEMENTED NOW AS THINGS ARE
SORT OF COMING BACK.
BUT WHAT I UNDERSTAND IS THAT
NOW THAT IS THAT THIS APPROVAL
OF THE DOWNTOWN DOWNTOWN STREET
CLOSURES CONTINUES TO HAPPEN
FOR RESTAURANTS AND RETAILERS.
IT'S NOW KIND OF AN
ACCESSIBILITY HINDRANCE TO
THOSE IN THE COMMUNITY IN TERMS
OF GETTING TO THEIR EMPLOYMENT
LOCATIONS THAT ARE DOWNTOWN AND
ALSO JUST GETTING TO THEIR
THEIR ENGAGEMENTS THAT ARE
DOWNTOWN THAT'S CAUSING I THINK
A LITTLE BIT OF ACCESSIBILITY
ISSUE THERE.
AND I WANTED TO SEE IF TRACI IF
YOU WANTED TO SPEAK A LITTLE
BIT MORE ON THAT BEFORE I
CONTINUED.
>> YEAH, SURE.
I WILL BRIEFLY TALK MY PAST
EMPLOYMENT.
I KNEW THAT THERE WERE SOME
ISSUES YOU WORKED FOR THE RIGHT
AND THERE PARATRANSIT
DEPARTMENT AND SPECIFICALLY
THERE WERE SOME INDIVIDUALS WHO
WORKED AT A COFFEE SHOP THAT
WERE NOT ABLE TO BE DROPPED OFF
ON A STREET THAT WAS OPEN AND
SAFELY WALK NAVIGATE HAD THEIR
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT.
I HAVE ACTUALLY CONTACTED THE
SUPERVISOR FOR PARATRANSIT
SERVICES AT THE RIDE AND I
ASKED THEM THAT IF THEY HEARD
OF ANY COMPLAINTS FROM WRITERS
OR DRIVERS FOR THIS ISSUE, IF
THEY WOULD FEEL COMFORTABLE IN
EITHER HAVING THE CUSTOMER CALL
ME DIRECTLY OR MAYBE THEY DID
CONTACT ME TO LET ME KNOW JUST
SO WE CAN KEEP CONTACT OR KEEP
AN IDEA IF THIS IS HAPPENING.
I ALSO CONTACTED THE MANAGER
OF THAT PARTICULAR BUSINESS TO
TO SEE IF THERE WAS ANY ANY
ACCOMMODATIONS OR ADJUSTMENTS
THAT I COULD ASSIST IN MAKING
FOR FOR THAT PERSON FOR THAT
STORE'S EMPLOYEES.
>> I SURE YES.
>> AND I COULD DISCUSS MEANT
THAT I WOULD I HAVE A LOT
OF ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES
ESPECIALLY I MAIN STREET THAT I
THINK I KNOW THE COFFEE SHOP
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT TOO.
AND I ALSO HAVE HEARD
COMPLAINTS FROM THE FROM
DIFFERENT FOLKS TAKING A AITA
AND USE THEM ON THE RIDE ABOUT
ACCESSIBLE THE ISSUES DOWN
THERE AND HOW THEY CAN'T DROP
OFF WHERE THEY NEED TO DROP OFF
BUT SOME OF THE ACCESSIBLE
ISSUES I HAVE IS YOU KNOW, WHEN
YOU GO DOWN THERE PEOPLE DON'T
PUSH IN THEIR CHAIRS.
THE TABLES ARE STUFFED
SOMETIMES WEIRD ANGLES THEN YOU
GO OUT TO GO AROUND THEM AND
INTO THE STREET AND I GET I GET
AROUND GOOD FOR THOSE WHO KNOW
ME I GET AROUND VERY WELL.
IT'S KIND OF HARD WHEN THEY
WHEN THE BUSINESS IS DOWN THERE
AND OF COURSE THEY CAN'T
ENTIRELY HELP IT BECAUSE YOU
GOT YOUR CUSTOMERS INVOLVED
TOO.
BUT IT TURNS IT INTO A PLEASANT
AND I DO LIKE EATING OUTSIDE ON
OCCASION I THINK THAT'S
PLEASANT BUT I ALSO FIND THAT
TRYING TO GET FROM ONE PLACE TO
ANOTHER BECOMES I CAN BECOME
VERY DIFFICULT EVEN WITHIN A
BLOCK WHEN YOU HAVE TO GO
THROUGH WITH WHAT BASICALLY
TURNS INTO A MAZE.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY LARRY.
THANK YOU FOR THAT FEEDBACK.
I MEAN YOU KNOW THIS RESOLUTION
FOLKS JUST FOR THE RECORD GOES
ALL THE WAY BACK TO TWENTY
TWENTY IN TERMS OF RESOLUTION
OUR DASH TWO ZERO DASH ONE NINE
FOUR AND OF COURSE IT WAS
ORIGINALLY APPROVED TO PROMOTE
THE HEALTHY STREET CLOSURES
RESTAURANT AND RETAIL USE
DURING THE NINETEEN PANDEMIC.
HOWEVER, IT'S MY OPINION THAT
THIS PARTICULAR RESOLUTION IS
JUST SORT OF A BIT KIND OF YOU
KNOW LIKE A KIND OF OUTDATED
AND SO I WANTED TO ASK THE
COMMISSION'S OPINION ON THIS
PARTICULAR YOU KNOW, CLOSURE.
I MEAN IS THERE A WAY THAT WE
CAN MAYBE WRITE SOMETHING ON
BEHALF OF KODAI THAT CAN SORT
OF SUGGEST AN ADJUSTMENT TO
THIS?
AND I SEE WE HAVE A COMMENT SO
I'LL PAUSE HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE, I'M
RIGHT THERE WITH YOU AT MIT
BECAUSE I KNOW CITIES ACROSS
THE US THAT DURING COVID
BECAUSE IT WAS CONSIDERED SAFER
TO EAT OUTSIDE IN THE OPEN AIR
AND IT HELPED SO THAT
RESTAURANTS AND OTHER AND
COFFEE SHOPS WOULDN'T CLOSE
DOWN COMPLETELY DURING COVID
AND THAT RESTRICTIONS AND NOW
IT'S JUST KIND OF ALSO
CONSIDERED KIND OF A PLACE PART
OF PLACEMAKING WHICH IS ON THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ONE OF THE
FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
RESOLUTION THAT PASSED A COUPLE
OF COUNCIL MEETINGS AGO AND I I
THINK THE QUOTE I NEED MORE
ACTIVE ROLE IN HOW CITY
PLANNING IS BEING HANDLED AT
THE GET GO INSTEAD OF TRYING TO
RECTIFY IT LATER I DO KNOW THAT
IT'S AN ISSUE OF SNIPPER.
I HAD A QUESTION DO WE HAVE A
DIRECT EMAIL ADDRESS WHERE WE
GET COMPLAINTS FROM PEOPLE
BECAUSE AS GREAT AS IT IS FOR
YOU, TRACY BIRD OR THE
CHIPOLATA TO RECEIVE THE
COMPLAINTS OR LARRY TO
COMMISSIONER KEELER TO HEAR
FROM SOMEONE I THINK BE
RECEIVING THOSE COMPLAINTS AND
WRITING TO BE ABLE TO DISCUSS
THEM AT THE COTAI MEETINGS
WOULD BE A VERY HELPFUL AND I
KNOW THAT WE ACTUALLY DO THAT
RENTERS COMMISSION WE HAVE LIKE
WE GET SEVERAL LETTERS.
WE ALSO HAVE A DEDICATED
NEWSLETTER AS WELL.
IT'S A WHOLE OTHER ISSUE THAT'S
A SIDE ISSUE.
>> I KNOW MR. KELLER AND THEN
TRACY BIRD I AM JUST GOING TO
SPEAK ABOUT THIS AND WE DO NEED
WE DO NEED SOMETHING TO I FEEL
WE NEED SOMETHING TO ALMOST
FIGHT BACK BECAUSE IT SEEMS
THAT THE CLIMATE OF MAYBE CITY
HALL BUT ESPECIALLY COMING UP
IN THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION IS YES, WE'RE GOING
TO CLOSE ALL THE STREETS.
WE'RE GOING TO GO FOR HEALTHY
STREETS.
WE'RE GOING TO PUT ALL THE SO
WE THINK WILL WE'RE GOING TO BE
GOING AGAINST THE GRAIN HERE.
SO WE'RE GETTING A LOT OF A LOT
OF ASSISTANCE TO TRY TO GET GET
THIS RESULT BECAUSE THEY'RE
ALSO GOING TO WANT TO PUT SPEED
BULBS IN THE STREET AND THEY
WANT TO PUT BIKE LANES AND
DIVIDERS BETWEEN BIKE LANES SO
THIS IS A BIG ISSUE ALL AROUND
IT STARTING WITH THE SIDEWALK
ISSUE.
IT CAN BE YOU KNOW WHAT SEEMS
TO BE ON THE PLAN FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR APPEARS TO THEY
HAVEN'T IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
THEY'RE ALL THE ACCESSIBILITY
ISSUES HAVE BEEN LOOKED AT
SUFFICIENTLY AND HAMMERED OUT.
>> I THINK THAT WE DEFINITELY
ARE GOING TO NEED TO TO FIGURE
OUT WHAT TO DO ABOUT THAT.
>> THANK YOU, LARRY.
I APPRECIATE YOUR FEEDBACK
WHICH MAKES ME THINK UM YES.
>> SO TA TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION, COMMISSIONER
RATCLIFFE, THAT YOU'RE
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT THAT WE NEED
TO PLAN FOR THINGS VERSUS BE
REACTIVE AND THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT IN THE LAST SIX MONTHS
THAT I'VE BEEN WORKING ON AND
ACTUALLY HAVE BEEN I DON'T WANT
TO SAY SOMEWHAT SUCCESSFUL BUT
I'VE BEEN WORKING WITH SEVERAL
DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS WHO ARE
BRINGING OUR OFFICE IN ON THE
CONVERSATION BEFOREHAND.
SO IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT'S
IMMEDIATE BUT IT IS SOMETHING
THAT IS BEING WORKED ON AND AS
FAR AS THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS THE CITY
DOES ACTUALLY THE OFFICE
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY DOES
HAVE A SEAT AT THE TABLE AND
THAT ACCESSIBILITY IS GOING TO
IS ONE OF THE SCORING POINTS
FOR ANY PROJECT.
SO OF COURSE AND I AND I WILL
KEEP YOU ALL ABREAST ON HOW
THIS THIS FLOWS AND HOW THAT
WORKS OUT.
SO I DO WANT TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT WHILE THERE IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT IS IMMEDIATELY
HAPPENING, IT IS IN THE WORKS.
>> MR. RIGHT.
WHAT IS IT I KNOW THAT YOU HAVE
THE BUT YOU YOU JUMPED IN WITH
BOTH FEET ALL HANDS.
IT SEEMS LIKE ANOTHER PAIR
OF HANDS AS WELL WITH WITHIN
THIS POSITION WHICH I I GREATLY
APPRECIATE BUT IT'S ALSO THAT
WHAT I HAVE NOTICED FROM
WATCHING CERTAIN COMMISSION
MEETINGS, OTHER COMMISSION
MEETINGS WHICH IS ISN'T AT THE
CITY STAFF LEVEL IS WHERE SOME
OF THESE ISSUES COME INTO PLAY
WHEN IT COMES TO LIKE THINGS
FROM THE PLANET LIKE BUILDINGS
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION
THAT GET RECOMMENDED.
THERE ARE
ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES
WHEN YOU KNOW WHAT'S COMING
FROM THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION AGAIN WE'RE FINDING
SOME OF THOSE ISSUES AND IT'S
NOT A CITY COUNCIL STILL WILL
APPROVE IT BECAUSE THERE ISN'T
SOMEONE AT A CITY COUNCIL
MEETING NECESSARILY SAYING IT
EITHER, WHICH IT'S VERY HARD TO
CATCH EVERYTHING ON THE AGENDA
IS COMING UP AHEAD OF TIME
SOMETIMES AS WELL.
BUT I THINK MAYBE THIS IS JUST
A SUGGESTION THAT WE DO TAKE
TIME ANOTHER MEETING DEDICATE
AT TIME, MAYBE NOT HAVE A
PRESENTATION AND REALLY TALK
ABOUT SOME OF THE THE ISSUES
AND HOW WE CAN MOVE FORWARD.
COMMISSIONER DAMAN BECAUSE I
KNOW WE'RE RUNNING OUT OF TIME.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
WE ARE.
UNFORTUNATELY FOLKS WE'RE WE'RE
DEFINITELY SHORT OF TIME HERE
BUT BUT BUT BUT I THINK YOU
KNOW I MEAN ITEMS LIKE THIS ARE
STILL YOU KNOW, DEFINITELY
IMPORTANT.
TRACY, YOU HAVE A QUESTION.
>> I JUST I DID NOT MAKE IT.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE ANOTHER
COMMENT THAT YES, THERE IS AN
ADA COMPLAINT PROCEDURE ON THE
CITY'S WEBSITE CURRENTLY IF YOU
GO TO I BELIEVE COATIS PAGE YOU
CAN FIND THAT.
SO THERE IS IN ANY COMPLAINTS
THAT WILL COME TO ME I WILL
MAKE SURE THAT IS PART OF MY
JOB TO YOU ALSO TO INFORM YOU
BECAUSE YOU'RE RIGHT IT DOES
TAKE AS THEY SAY IT TAKES A
VILLAGE.
IT TAKES MANY HANDS AND FEET
AND PEOPLE INVOICES TO TO GET
PROBLEMS AND ISSUES RESOLVED.
>> SO I THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR
WORK AND YOUR DEDICATION AND
VOLUNTEERING YOUR TIME FOR US.
>> SO THAT'S ALL I WANT TO SAY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, TRACY.
AND I THINK IT'S BEST TO
COMMISSIONER REDCLIFF AS YOU
SAID, I WOULD LIKE TO REVISIT
THIS RESOLUTION.
AH DASH TWO ZERO DASH ONE NINE
FOUR.
I WOULD LIKE US TO SORT OF SEE
WHERE WE CAN GO ON THIS IN
TERMS OF , YOU KNOW,
IMPLEMENTING A CHANGE FROM THIS
AND AND SEEING HOW WE CAN WORK
WITH THE CITY ON THAT.
WHAT DOES EVERYBODY THINK ABOUT
THAT?
I AGREE.
OK, OK KENNEDY I'LL I'LL BE
SURE TO MAKE SURE THAT WE PUT
RESOLUTION ARDECHE TWENTY DASH
ONE NINE FOUR ON OUR AGENDA TO
DISCUSS THIS IN A FUTURE
MEETING.
ALL RIGHT.
I AM GOING TO CONCLUDE MY CHAIR
REPORT NOW A COUNCIL MEMBER
ALREADY DID THEIR CITY COUNCIL
UPDATE.
SO NOW WE ARE TO OLD BUSINESS.
DO WE HAVE ANY OLD BUSINESS?
OH, WE DO THAT BY CHAIR.
YOU HAVE YOUR HAND UP.
>> OH, MY HEAD WAS JUST I WOULD
SAY BE I WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
CONTINUING THE EARLIER
CONVERSATION AND SECONDLY COULD
A COPY OF THAT RESOLUTION BE
SENT TO ME?
YES.
KENNEDY COULD WE COULD WE SEND
THAT TO THE FULL COMMISSION A
LINK TO THAT YOU'RE ABLE TO
EMAIL ME THE RESOLUTION'S TITLE
?
>> I'M ABLE TO LOOK IT UP AND I
CAN SEND IT TO EVERYONE.
YEAH, I WILL DO.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH AS FOR
OLD BUSINESS, WE HAVE NO
CURRENT OLD BUSINESS.
IT'S ON THE AGENDA.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY NEW BUSINESS KENNEDY
APPARENTLY THERE IS NO NEW
BUSINESS ON THE AGENDA.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ANY ADDITIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
FROM ANYONE?
>> THAT'S ME.
THE TRANSPORTATION MEETING IS
AT SEVEN TONIGHT AND IT IS ON
BROADCAST ON C-SPAN IN CASE
ANYBODY WANTS TO WATCH IT.
>> SHISHAKLY TOMORROW AT SEVEN
THIRTY IS THE RENTERS
COMMISSION MEETING SO FEEL FREE
TO WATCH THAT AND ALSO I DON'T
SINCE I HAD A CONNECTIVITY
ISSUE I DON'T KNOW IF COUNCIL
MEMBER JOSE HAD MENTIONED IT
BUT HER WARD THREE COFFEE HOUR
IS ON TUESDAY AT 10AM TUESDAY
SUNDAY AT 10:00 A.M. AND THEIR
SPECIAL GUEST IS CHIEF
ANDERSON, THE NEW POLICE CHIEF
AND I KNOW YOU WANTED TO HAVE
HIM HERE AT THE KODAK MEETING
BUT IT'S ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY TO
MEET HIM IN PERSON FASHION OR
MOZART.
YES, I JUST WANTED TO MENTION
THE LOCAL ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR
THE ANN ARBOR AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY IS
CHANGING UP THEIR MEETING DATES
THIS MONTH.
THEY'RE MEETING APRIL TWENTY
THIRD ON TUESDAY THEY ARE
HAVING A HYBRID MEETING IN
PERSON AND VIRTUAL BELIEVE IT'S
AT TWO P.M. BUT YOU CAN GO TO
THEIR WEBSITE AT THE RIDE DOG
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED.
I WILL BE REAPPLYING FOR THAT
SOON TOO SO YOU GUYS WILL HAVE
ANOTHER BOARD MEMBER MAYBE.
ALL RIGHT.
THE OTHER COMMUNICATIONS.
WELL WITH THAT IT IS FIVE FIFTY
ALL RIGHT.
EIGHT AND DO WE HAVE A MOTION
WELL WITH THAT IT IS FIVE FIFTY
TO ADJOURN THIS EVENING
SIMILAR
TO THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
ALL RIGHT, ROB, SECONDS ALL IN
FAVOR OF ADJOURNING ON APRIL
17TH AT FIVE FIFTY NINE PLEASE
AND SAY I I I.
ALL RIGHT.
THE DOG SAYS I DO HAVE TO GO TO
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH EVERYONE I
KNOW IT WAS A LONG MEETING BUT
I THINK WE COVERED GREAT THINGS
WHEN I THINK THE CITY OF ANN
RECORDING STOPPED.
>> I THINK THE COMMUNITY
TELEVISION NETWORK.
>> THANK YOU EVERYONE FOR ALL
OF YOUR SERVICE.
HAVE A GOOD DAY.
>> BYE